We were assigned to work CDL L/P XXXXXXX for lav service door. Once we arrived at the aircraft inside hangar we noticed damage fwd of the lav service area. After further research we found a carry item L/P XXXYYYYY that appears to have addressed this damage and item was placed on EXT. The damage was never repaired per SRM XX-XX-XX as stated in L/P . After we addressed the damage we also found the shear tie common to this area was damaged the aircraft is now out of service for a permanent repair to be performed to the area.Aircraft should have never flown with the damage that it had. Proper evaluations need to be done when ground damage like this occurs.
Another base mechanic called me asking about an inspection that was deleted from [software]. Stated that his EPS cap check was overdue. The required 12 month cap check inspection was not on the status sheet when he was doing his annual records audit. I then checked my aircraft records and found the same issue. The Day Emergency Power Supply Routine test; ( that you did by pushing the EPS test button for 5 seconds looking for a green light ); was now in fact a 180 day Removal/replacement for routine test. I have to assume that meant cap check. When you check the D form on the AAIP; the intervals reference 180 days. When you look at the References AMM 12-A-24-52-51-00A-920A-A Task 24-50/70 it states that the cap check is a 12 months requirement. Task # 46i0500-30 D 5330 - 180 Day Emergency Power Supply Routine Test. That is a function check by pushing the button for 5 seconds and looking for a green light. I called the appropriate people and got message machines. I was trying to get clarification if the inspection was corrected. The e-mail I got was that [Company] was using the most conservative time to do the cap check. As per the AMM and the manufacturer the cap check is to be done every 12 months. This lacks the most common sense and a lack of willingness to follow the manufacturer recommendation. The inability to make clear the requirements of checking. Or look at the requirements and think; the description is not correct because the reference says 12 month cap check. Everything you do to maintain an aircraft is reference. No reference you have to look it up to see how to do an inspection or a service. This same issue could happen the next time a mechanic checks a status sheet and see's the [test] is due ( Emergency Power Supply Routine Test ) Push the Button. As a note the EPS is not due a cap check for another 90 days per the manufacturer and AMM.
I was assigned to perform a pushback for Flight XXX. Once the CA and FO completed their preflight checklist; they asked to have ground air removed from the aircraft; then we continued with running engine #2; followed by removing GPU; releasing brakes and pursuing the pushback. As a new hire mechanic for this was my third attempt at a pushback with a tug in tow. At this time in the morning; we had a mist followed by a period of light rain and calm winds. Inexperienced; I proceeded to pushback with my fellow A&P mechanic on my right hand side guiding me and giving me hand signals to guide the tug. I was instructed by him to let go of the brake from the tug and let the tug push without using any acceleration and use the accelerator if need be. At this point I approached an unmarked portion of the ramp providing the place where I should be turning the plane for taxiing. As I am proceeding to turn; I noticed and was instructed that there is no indication on the NLG (Nose Landing Gear) door to where the 91 degree mark is (beyond or exceeding the turning radius). At this point; once I turned I notice that I turned too hard going beyond the point taking into consideration that there is no indication anywhere specifying turning radius. Once I came to a complete stop; I notified the CA and FO to set the brakes; once the brakes were set; the rampers released the tow bar from the plane and I backed up about 3 feet and then the tow bar was placed on the tug; removed the safety pin; verified that the pin was removed with CA and FO; rampers removed the phone jack and closed the GPU panel. I then drove off to the gate and noticed that the shear pin was sheared off and the tow bar was bent. I then notified my supervisor. I inspected the NLG and found that the bobbins on both sides were fractured. The plane was then grounded.
O2 control on/off cable with the following reference C208 35-00-01 which is very vague nowhere in this MM states anything about these flap switch guards. Tested O2 system ops check good. Once again nowhere in the MM states anything about these guards for the flap switch system or testing the flap switches after removing the guards to access the O2 cable. When aircraft landed pilot reported flaps inoperative at zero. Notified Maintenance Control. Maintenance Control asked me to verify flap switch guards and realized that they were in the wrong position causing the flap system to fault. Repositioned the flap switch guards to original position I/A/W TDA 2750E002 ops check good. C208 MM needs to be updated; also need better  maintenance bulletin procedures.
We had plane XXXX that had been placed on a Grounded status due to the FO (First Officer) having communication errors. The Captain could hear the FO but the FO could not hear the Captain. This issue was happening across VHF 1; 2 and 3. We 1st tried to re-stow the FO's oxygen mask which did not correct the problem. Then we swapped headsets; the Digital Audio Panel; and the mic jacks with no luck. Maintenance Control decided that we needed to try swapping COMM 1 and 2. That swap did not work as well; so Maintenance Control decided that we needed to replace NIM II. The network interface module was looked up in the maintenance manual doing a aircraft specific search and verifying it in Maintenance Software under component replacement. The search came up which we did not have at our station but it had an alternate which we did have at our station. So with time constraints upon us we chose the NIM and proceeded to change NIM II. The NIM was installed and target load was completed without an issue. Replacing the NIM II did not fix the FO's comm issue. I decided to leave the newly installed NIM on the plane and place the NIM that was taken off the plane in the SAVE program. When we returned to the office the 1st shift had arrived; so we turned over the Grounded plane to the next shift to further troubleshoot. Upon the next shift trying to return the NIM they found that they could not due to the NIM not being applicable to the plane even though it could be used for an alternate. We found that the NIM was to be used with a Pentium M processor and on plane it uses a Pentium II processor. I immediately contacted ZZZ where the plane was to land that night to be a RON and advised them that the wrong network interface module was replaced on Aircraft and if they could change it once the plane arrived. They advised me that they would and the NIM II was replaced with the correct pin which was for a Pentium II.
Through a LOSA observation; Aircraft X main wheel tires were brought to our attention during a service check. The technician noticed that the valve stems that were installed on all of the aircraft tires was a large-bore type versus the conventional small-bore type valve stem. This raised concerns as to the effectivity of the main wheel tire since the small-bore type; through years of experience; have always been installed on Company fleet of Airbus A319/A320. Upon further research; LOSA looked at other tire assemblies installed on aircrafts around the maintenance base and Airbus serviceable tire rack assemblies and found part numbers that were not being reflected in the IPCs for the nose and main tires. Part numbers 1531 and 1584 for the nose tires and 1590 for the main tires were observed. In addition; all tires that we looked at had the small-bore type valve stems.Whether or not this is the right configuration for Company Airbus fleet; clarification is needed to determine effectivity. If the larger bore type valve stem is effective for the airbus A319/A320; one of the concerns is that these aircrafts may fly to a station that may not have the adapter to service the tires because stations are not aware of the two different wheel assembly configurations.I have attached two sets of IPCs; one for the main wheels and the other for the nose wheel tires. The first set reflects the aircraft nose number in question; 4871; 4107). Aircraft X was a random nose number chosen to reflect an Airbus IPC.I have also attached the CMM reference 32-XX-XX which is referenced by the IPC. The CMM has an effectivity table published but I could not find the legend to define the codes. Photos of the larger-bore type valve stems and the smaller-bore valve stems have been attached which came from the aircraft that was in question. A few of the photos were taken from wheel assemblies on the serviceable racks.We reached out to All Fleet Engineer and explained to him our issues. He requested paperwork and pictures which we have not yet been able to forward to him.
Aircraft X arrived to ZZZ with a ground time of 1 hour 24 minutes. the lead assigned to aircraft was [Mechanic] and two techns. Aircraft had a status message semi lever gear press left. All leads in the crew were monitoring the situation including the supervisor on duty. The technicians working the item were having a problem with the tooling used to service the strut. They were able to clear the message but the strut pressure was not at the proper level for dispatch per chart in the amm. The plane was in delay so I decided to go assist along with another lead [mechanic]. The supervisor on duty was already with the techs. I suggested to the supervisor and technicians to either find an alternate method to service the strut or find another strut servicing gauge. At that moment the supervisor on duty decided to go back to his office. Then management decided to sign of the log items including the mrd knowing that the pressure was not at Dispatch level. The plane took off. The message came back; and it was serviced at the next station. Have proper tooling available to support the aircraft and management should not circumvent procedures and releasing an aircraft knowing it was not ready for dispatch.
Tasked to work non routine iPad write up for failing First Officer lower pitot/static system. The non-routine work history indicated the previous crew had troubleshot the cause down to the elevator feel computer. My work mate and I decided to do a test equipment test first to verify the integrity of the hoses and manifolds of the test unit. We found multiple problems with leaking hoses and a loose pitot connection.After obtaining a tight test system we performed a successful low range leak test of the lower probe. I signed off the write up as accomplished and noted the finding of bad test equipment on the sign off. I referenced the pitot/static [manuals] found on the job card that generated the non-routine.After the aborted takeoff on [date]; I was tasked with troubleshooting the First Officer airspeed indication failure; associated with the upper First Officer pitot probe. Upon removing the upper probe the quick disconnects for the pitot and 1 of 2 static lines partially engaged. Have pitot probe task cards amended to reflect the connection of the quick disconnects as an Inspection item as per [company procedure].
Aft drain mast was removed in ZZZ. Was reinspecting tape and realized no blanking plate had been installed. Tape was blown out from inside. Contacted engineering was told the blanking plate was not required because drain mast was going to reinstalled so that step from amm is not necessary. I do not believe that is the proper interpretation of the AMM.
On Aircraft X arrival walk around found signs of delamination to right wing outboard trailing edge aft flap lower skin at inboard corner. A line technician and a lead line technician performed a tap test and agreed that flap shows signs of delamination. This was confirmed by a line sheet metal technician with a tap test and found out of limits per [manual] and updated the log page with details. But after all this; a Maintenance Supervisor signs off this log just by saying flap appears to be previously repaired; and provided no evidence and/or documentation of previous repair. Not only that but the Maintenance Supervisor also failed to mention in the sign off which trailing edge flap was inspected; left wing or right wing; inboard or outboard?This [report] is filed to report an FAA violation. The review of the log shows a trailing edge flap and also a bearing placed on AOG (Aircraft on Ground) since they were not in stock. A review of Maintenance log history was also performed and showed no record of repair done to this right wing outboard trailing edge aft flap. So let's get this straight: a line technician; a line lead technician and a line sheet metal technician agreed that this flap is delaminated with [manual] reference; but a Maintenance Supervisor can just say; appears to be; and sign it off! Really? Is this how we do maintenance? The union steward was informed of this and is investigating.
Road trip from ZZZ to ZZZ1 for Aircraft X. Found aircraft maintenance not documented by multiple mechanics. Multiple task found to be started; but not documented on [system]. Informed mechanics to document their Maintenance on [system]. Was updated by mechanics on was what was accomplished. No stories matched. Heavy wind throughout operation and possible hydraulic activation during cable tension adjustment. Documentation does not match maintenance performed. Cable tension was released without proper pins installed. Incorrect cables adjusted. Inspected aircraft and found multiple turnbuckles with broken turnbuckle clips. Cables now require replacement. Found multiple Broken turnbuckle safety clips in cabin of aircraft.Inspected aircraft and found multiple turnbuckles with broken turnbuckle clips. Incorrect control cable adjusted. Now two flight control system require confirmation of correct installation. Suspect possible third flight control system.Maintenance not documented; maintenance manual not followed. Upon realization of incorrect maintenance and documentation performed; contacted lead; supervisor; base manager for further guidance. Documented mistakes found.
Aircraft X; ZZZ Line Maintenance; [date]. Midnight shift. #1 eng has running fuel leak from drain mast...; VSV (variable stator vane) actuator r&r which is RII on install and ops/leak check. Lead [Name 1] signed aircraft logbook entry [following day]. No inspector called even though 3 were on duty. RII signed for in aircraft logbook entry by [name 2]. [Name 2] is not an inspector or qualified for RII of any kind. [Name 1] signs airworthiness release for Aircraft X. Aircraft X leaves ZZZ on revenue flight to ZZZ1. Aircraft X returns to ZZZ on revenue flight. (Both flights noncompliant) with false RII sign off in logbook. Midnight shift is notified of failure by both leads and an inspector is called to inspect and do ops/leak check.[Name 3] feels something is not right with this job and starts to ask questions. I return from days off and continue to dig. [6 days later] FAA inspector [Name 4] is notified in the morning. Cause: both leads are inexperienced and lacking in procedures knowledge. Neither has worked in ZZZ as line mechanics. Suggestions: a requirement of 18 months experience as line mechanic should be in place for a crew chief position (leadman) as it is now a mechanic on probation as new hire can bid and get the job. The men he is assigned to lead cannot be trained and steered correctly to succeed by someone barely able to function in this dynamic and dangerous situation.
During maintenance operation on the aircraft; my co-worker and I damaged the thrust reverser. We were scheduled to do overnight maintenance that included RTWO DAY/ QRH INSTALL/ ACMF;FHDB;DVDR;QAR downloads; and lastly a Engine 1 thrust reverser fault. Before plane arrival I did some research as to what needed to be done on the E1 thrust reverser. It was noted that it simply needed an operational test due to previous maintenance. Once the plane arrived me and my co-worker planned we would start with the simple tasks as the RTWO DAY; and begin to start our downloads. Once accomplishing the ACMF/FHDB download. I went back to the shop with a QAR download due to lack of internet;before I stepped away from the plane I had the computer attached to the front of the aircraft where the DVDR download was taking place. This is when I instructed my co-worker to only remove and open the fan cowl for engine 1; since I was focused on the downloads. He mentioned to me he did not have full awareness of the thrust reverser system; which is why I only instructed him to open and release the fan cowling. Once at the shop and completing the QAR download/upload; my lead wanted to tag along since he assigned himself to an airplane that would be arriving near our gate. Upon approach to the plane I noticed that my co worker was unlatching the thrust reverser cowling latches. I mentioned this to my lead since he was in the same vehicle with me and he stepped out to speak with him to notify him. I was not aware of what was spoken between them; because I walked towards the DVDR download that was being done but had failed. I stayed there and retried my download not paying attention as to if the latches were secured on the thrust reverser. Once my download was complete my lead had left to take care of his plane. At this point me and my co-worker were at the flight deck and we started preparing to test the thrust reverser. According to the deferral; the thrust reverser was deactivated and need to be activated. According to the maintenance manual (AMM 78-XX-XX) for reactivation remove screws; fairing plugs; remove lock plates; inhibition bolts from trans cowl. Then install fairing plugs with screws on the transcowl (torqued to spec) Lastly reactivate the ICU clearing the E1 REV INHIBIT. with all of this being accomplished I powered up the APU together and ran hydraulics. At this point I told my coworker to have the reference opened for the operational test of the thrust reverser; which he did. Being a two man job I was on the ground pushing GMO switch to operate the thrust reverser. Being in sync with him on the phone we began to operate the thrust reverser; for a cycle of 3-4 time approximately. During this cycle I heard a very loud cracking sound that didn't seem normal to me due to past experience. I could not see where this sound was coming from during those cycles since I had to have my hand on the GMO switch while operating. At this point I needed a new set of eyes; so I contacted my supervisor explaining to him what I was hearing and also noted to him I had operated the engine 2 thrust reverser to confirm the odd noise coming from ENG1. Being no sound on E2 it confirmed to me something was off. I rechecked the screws I had tightened earlier to see if I misplaced any of them but noticed they were all good. As my supervisor was coming to assist me it never occurred to me to check the thrust reverser cowl latches; since I was not aware if my co-worker had secured them. I had been to occupied and concerned with the failed DVDR which worked for me the second time. When my supervisor arrived we did the same cycles and he heard the same noise. He inspected it and didn't find much until he bent down and noticed one of the latches was slightly opened. We switched places and he held the GMO switch and I laid underneath the engine to see the forward transcowl latch; latched within itself but not securing the cowl together. Once I latched it to secure it; I noticed that the center IFS latch was completely crushed and bent to bits. I also noticed it had damaged around the latch bolts and cracking some of the frames around it. After this; it was inspected by other Mechanics and found significant damage. It was my negligence to double check the work being performed; it should have been a smarter action on my part to double check the work; it was my lack of awareness.
Aircraft X had landed in ZZZ we had an inbound write up for ENG #1 abnormal bleed IP valve would not open. I had called Maintenance Control; told them the write up and they directed me to apply MEL 36-XX-XXX and MEL 36-XX-XXX. During the application of this MEL the flight crew was going with they're procedures for this MEL and had no issue with it. Note: HP bleed valve for same engine was already on MEL 36-XX-XXX; nowhere in the maintenance procedures for any of these MELs does it indicate that you can't have all of them applied. Flight crew took Aircraft X from ZZZ to ZZZ1 the next day I was notified by my supervisor that the wrong MEL had been applied. Mel 36-XX-XXX is the MEL that should have been applied not MEL 36-XX-XXX. This was discovered by the flight crew that was taking Aircraft X out of ZZZ1 and they had a conflict with the operation procedures. The maintenance procedures for the bleed system when multiple things are failing are not clear. There's nothing in the maintenance procedures to keep you from applying MELs that counter act each other.The maintenance procedures for the bleed system when multiple things are failing are not clear. There's nothing in the maintenance procedures to keep you from applying MELs that counter act each other.
The aircraft I was assigned; Aircraft X; arrived on [date] with a scheduled departure on [3 days later]. I; and the AMT I was paired with; installed Pitot Probe covers on the night of [date]; and created an open entry in the AML for this Maintenance Action. The [staff] were instructed by our Base Manager to transfer the item to the following log page; and release the aircraft as airworthy. I believe this is in direct violation of CFR 121.709 as they declared the aircraft as airworthy knowing that the aircraft was in fact not. With aircraft being parked on the ground for extended periods of time; Pitot/Static Covers have been installed [in accordance with General Procedures Manual] on varying aircraft during this time. Due to complaints from the planning department; and other shifts; [overnight maintenance] personnel have been instructed to release aircraft as airworthy and transcribe any open maintenance entries for Pitot Covers to the following log page. This is a violation of CFR 121.709 as the person releasing the aircraft as airworthy knows and fully understands that the aircraft is not airworthy in its current configuration. Providing more clear procedures on what action should be taken in the AML for open items related to installation of Pitot Covers; or extended on ground Maintenance operations. Or to have planning create Long Term [overnight Bill of Work request] for any aircraft scheduled to be on the ground longer than 48 Hours; so an airworthiness release is not necessary until ALL Open AML Items (Pitot Covers included) are closed.
We were told that our assigned aircraft had changed. We now had Aircraft X [on the ground] and [an inspection aircraft] still scheduled to arrive [a few hours later]. We went to Aircraft X and started with completing the Maintenance Visit inspection before starting the FIM [Fault Identification Manual] for brakes dragging. During the inspection we found the L/H aft Position light inop and an MEL for galley drawer we needed parts for. We went to grab parts for Mel and light. During this time [another aircraft] returned to a gate for PSEU [Proximity Switch Electronic Unit] light on. The Lead asked for anyone available to answer the call. After the second request AMT2 [Aircraft Maintenance Tech 2] and I decided to answer the gate return. We were able to fix the PSEU light and [the] aircraft was able to continue its flight though it took a little longer than planned. We got back to Aircraft X; we fixed the L/H position light and galley MEL and began working the FIM. The FIM asked us to apply brakes and observe the piston actuation and retractions if no problems were observed the fault was transitory. We called Maintenance Control to clear the MEL and report our findings on the brake dragging. Maintenance Control asked us to perform an additional task of jacking both gears of the aircraft and physically spin all 4 Main Landing Gear tires. So we went to get the landing gear jack and brought it to the aircraft and jacked the R/H landing gear first. While spinning the wheels we found the #3 grinding and not spinning freely. I started to prep for tire and brake removal. AMT2 went to go get the torque wrenches and thread/axle protectors we would need to change the #3 brakes. We felt we had to have the brake changed and aircraft ready to fly before our [next] check aircraft arrived because we did not know how long it would take to complete the check and if we could make it back out to Aircraft X. We changed the brake [about 10 minutes before the next aircraft was scheduled to arrive] and when we torqued the tire back on and we still needed to jack the LH side as soon as the tire was on and secured. We lowered the gear and I went to jack the left side while AMT2 installed dust cover. I jacked and spun the left gear and found them spinning freely. Over the radio we heard that [our next assigned aircraft] was on the ground and taxiing to [the] gate. I remember worrying about making it to debrief the crew and completing the check package before morning launch. I lowered the left gear while AMT2 picked up the old brake and filled out PCT [Parts Control Tag]. AMT2 loaded the tire cart while I set the brakes and grabbed the log book. We split up; AMT2 went to finish the log book and turn in the tire equipment while I met [the next] aircraft and started the check. The rest of the night proceeded normally from there. Completing the inspection and the remainder of the shift.[Later] during my fact finding I was informed that the brake hydraulic line was not installed and was found after 3 flight legs.If assigned a high stress job like Aircraft X; the team members should not be assigned another high stress job like completing a check before first launch on a late landing aircraft. I will focus more on the job I am currently working instead of worrying about the next job.
I was assigned to work on Aircraft X at ZZZ (hangar) with my co-worker. We were performing ECO. Coworker printed out the ECO [Engineering Change Order] work card; we gathered required equipment; went to the aircraft and performed ELAC software update. The second portion of the ECO was to disconnect 2 wires from the back of the rack of each ELAC. We read the procedure from ECO together; accomplished the task; performed tests; upgraded the cards and after every test passed closed it all up and went to production to sign the work card. We realized that the second portion of the work card (wiring disconnecting) is not printed out for us to sign. We asked for it to be printed. Promptly signed it and went home. Next day my coworker performed identical work card again and found on the last page of the ECO that effectivity for his aircraft is not applicable for wiring removal from the ELAC's. He re-checked the effectivity for Aircraft X we worked on the day before and realized that the wire removal procedure (second part of the ECO) was not applicable for Aircraft X either. He promptly informed [Maintenance Control] and Aircraft X was taken out of service.  The event occurred because the effectivity page was found towards the end on the last page of the ECO after all the work steps were already performed and we both missed it. Usually effectivity is applied before printing work cards and it is found in the beginning of the work steps. The work-card has many pages and none of us ever performed such procedure before. Raining conditions and being short on time didn't benefit us either.I suggest to move the effectivity page towards the front of this ECO. We will make sure to double or triple check every step of the work card in the future even if it takes much longer. Safety is my priority and there is no room for unsafe events like this to be repeated.
We had a situation for Aircraft X due to and ENG 2 no dispatch message due to Ignition Channel B fault. When troubleshooting Maintenance found the connector/switch to the EHCL (Electro-Hydraulic cowl lock) broken. The MEL was applied for the ENG 2 Thrust Reversers. At this time there were no Maintenance personnel available to due an ENGINE run after they swapped E2 igniter plugs from channel A to B and B to A IAW the MEL. The Mechanics turned over the aircraft to the next shift to complete the Engine Runs. I arrived and retrieved the logbook and went with another mechanic to complete the Engine Runs. We performed the engine runs and called aircraft back into service approximately 30 mins prior to first departure of the day. We then recieved a call from [Maintenance Control] approximately 10 minutes prior to departure saying the pilot is reporting ENG 2 Rev INHIBIT message not being displayed on EICAS IAW MEL. Instead ENG 2 REV PROT FAULT displayed. The MEL that was signed off as previously c/w referenced AMM so we started there and found that it referenced AMM deactivation of the ICU(Isolation Control Unit). While following the AMM for Deactivating the ICU I saw that it said open Circuit Breaker and install a CB ring on E2 REVERSER CB as well as making sure the ICU inhibition lever was in the inhibit position with the quick release pin installed to make sure the lever is making contact with the micro switches. The lever was in the inhibit position but the quick release pin was not in the correct position. I moved the pin to the correct position and followed the last step of the deactivation process which was to make sure the E2 REV INHIBIT MESSAGE is shown on EICAS which it was. At this point I did not see in the ICU deactivation procedures of closing the CB and removing the ring as it was not in that part of the AMM. Instead of going back and referencing the AMM section the MEL had me go to and discussing with the other mechanic of whether or not we should close the CB we determined that it was not in the DEACTIVATION procedures so we should leave it open since the discrepancy was corrected. I should of referenced back the original AMM to make sure I followed the JOB CLOSE UP section as this would of told me to remove the CB ring and close it upon completion of deactivating the TR. Since the MEL was done by the prior shift I did not think to go back to that reference as I only performed the ICU deactivation even though I know that all AMM sections have a JOB CLOSE UP section. I also think the several Human Factors played a role in my error. The STRESS and PRESSURE of the plane being delayed after being [on ground] for a long period of time DISTRACTED me from being focused on reviewing my work and the AMM. I also had a LACK OF AWARENESS to realize the ICU deactivation did not have a JOB CLOSE UP SECTION. I think it would be helpful to add this section to the ICU deactivation part of the AMM to state if no other Maintenance is being performed to complete this section.
Per Tech Service request; replaced APU Fuel control unit on [date]; for deferral. FCU was no help; APU would not start; and no fuel supply was discovered at FCU. Thus; I could not complete a leak and ops check. I notified my Supervisor and then contacted [Maintenance Control]. I explained the situation to the 767 Controller; and suggested we open a deferral against the FCU leak and operational check. [Controller] informed me that he was not authorized to issue a DMI against an already existing open deferral. He suggested I just note the open leak and ops check in the maintenance comments attached to the APU deferral. I raised my concerns/objection to this course of action primarily due to the fact that there would be no real visibility or accountability. The potential to miss a critical step seemed to be glaringly obvious. I again stated my objection; to include the possibility of taking the airplane out of service. [Controller] suggested conferencing in with Engineering to investigate any EO relief. The powerplant engineer seemed not to grasp the intent; and indicated that this is not something he could or would be inclined to provide relief for. At that point; I turned the issue over to Maintenance Supervisor. After consulting with Manager; [Supervisor] came back to me; explained that there was simply no relief for adding additional deferral; and that he had assurances that the item would be tracked; and accomplished at the first opportunity; and that again; simply adding maintenance comments to the open deferral would suffice. After again raising my objection to this course of action; I was 'directed' to document the FCU removal and replacement; and to progress the deferral with maintenance comments indicating FCU leak and ops check needed to be accomplished. And so; working as 'directed'; I entered the pertinent information. The need to accomplish Leak and ops was stated directly and clearly to include Paragraph/step/subtasks required. On the Morning of [date]; I was informed by a coworker that [Maintenance Control] had been trying to contact me on the evening of [date] with regard to Aircraft X APU. Apparently; The APU deferral had been cleared in ZZZ on [date] by replacing the ECU (electronic control unit). No mention whatsoever with regard to FCU leak and ops check. Maintenance Supervisor who was on duty that evening noticed this maintenance activity; and called [Maintenance Control] to confirm that the Leak and ops had been addressed. Not surprisingly; no one in [Maintenance Control] was aware. Luckily; Aircraft X was called out of service until the item could be accomplished before flight. The item was opened as an M item on logpage as 'per [Maintenance Control] finding reference logpage apu fcu requires leak and ops check; and subsequently cleared as C/W.
AMM task 25-61-00-710-801A was unclear and not performed correctly. During Short Term Storage Aircraft Return to Service work card. Unfamiliar and unclear task. Misinterpreted Task. Have the TASK easier to follow. Have a GSE number for tools/equipment and add it to beginning as a required tool/equipment.
Signed off for the wrong procedure. Misread. Did not see the word Fixed and assumed that it was for the handheld ELT. Completed procedure for the ELT (portable) using proper ETN and signed off the block. I suggest that this block have a concise description within the statement that identifies which ELT so that the word at the top is not missed.
Aircraft X had fan blade damage written up against Engine #1 and the damage was researched and signed off as within limits. After further investigation it was noted that the same blades had been written up previously and signed off. As per the Procedures Manual; damage to engine fan blades are to be reworked in accordance with manual or other approved data requirements and must be properly documented by completion of AML or non-routine; but are not to be entered into the Maintenance History. If there is a question as to whether damage to a blade has been dispositioned; it is to be re-evaluated against the manual limits. A lot of time went into investigating the damage and repair limits when the blades had been documented and signed off previously. It is not normal to go into the computer and research work already previously performed. Had this aircraft been at the gate and loading passengers and found by the crew doing preflight walk around the flight most likely would have been delayed or canceled. There needs to be a way to document that the fan blades had been previously written up and investigated for serviceability to prevent future delays and cancelations. Update Procedures Manual to allow documentation into [the] Maintenance History file and a yellow paint dot be placed on blades in question giving the pilot a heads up that the blade damage had already been investigated.
Removing and replacing No. 2 engine fuel oil cooler;  when reinstalling line that was not removed but loosened and moved out of way; did not inspect gasket or remove and replace gasket;  sure I tightened all lines; leak checked at idle while running did not see any leaks.
I was informed that I installed the wrong transceiver on an Airbus 319 two and a half months ago. I had to go back into history to find the sign off and still do not remember the incident. I looked at the IPC 34-42-33-06; 34-42-33-07 and 34-42-33-08; 3 different parts that can be installed on this aircraft and I had the filter on to filter out other aircraft. Today; the IPC is still confusing with 3 different choices. One would think with the filter on you would get only one choice. Whoever is in charge of updating manuals is failing the mechanic. I try to do the best job daily; but it is an uphill battle with manuals. After 2 years; we just got an Airbus IPC revised! 2 years! The engineer saw the problem and it still took that long to correct. It is a constant battle to get manuals revised. I take full responsibility if I did install the wrong part; but it would be a lot easier if looking at IPC's was not a guessing game.
I was assigned Aircraft X; on the list of things to do was Maintenance Check Manual (MCM) XX-XX-XX. The card was not issued but was there to use as a guide since the aircraft was approaching 48 hours on the ground. I looked over the MCM card and saw GPM XX.XX on the front of card. GPM XX.XX.X covers pitot tube covers and referenced to also use AMM of the particular fleet which in this case was X fleet. I could only find the removal and replacement of the pitot tube in the aircraft maintenance manual. I brought this to the attention of the hangar manager. Manager suggested I get with Engineer X. I also noticed on the MCM XX-XX-XX that there should be an entry in the aircraft log book that pitot covers are installed. Engineer X told me the information I was requesting was in the company repair document and the all fleets maintenance manual.When researching the repair document; [it] referenced the AMM ATA XX ice and rain which gave the circuit breakers used without the warnings associated with specific order of opening the C/B's. The warnings for the order of C/B's is located in AMM XX-XX-XX for the removal and replacement of the pitot tube itself and no sign of pitot covers in the AMM also. When I was in conversation with the Engineer he also said the AFMM covered the same material. I had read the preface of the AFMM and understood it was not an FAA approved manual unless it had an AMOC (Alternate Method of Compliance) with it to make it a legal and legitimate to sign off in the AML. I constantly hear the supervisors X and Y state it is an approved FAA manual and instruct others to use it to sign off the logbook. The Engineer agreed with me and did say it was not an FAA approved manual and only to be used by the engineers. Upon looking into the manual and checking the individual fleets I found that all of the Y fleet had the appropriate references needed along with the GPM for a legal sign off in the logbook. I found many conflicts with other procedures when it comes to disinfection of the aircraft.All of the Y fleets state specific approved chemicals and procedures that are not in line with the AFMM spraying in the aircraft. They simply give a warning to use only the approved maintenance procedures or chemicals in order to not due harm to the aircraft systems. I performed all of my work per the GPM and AMM and the repair document for the placement and removal of the pitot tube covers. My concern is with the inconsistencies of the AFMM and the insistence that the AFMM be used in as a catch all in most situations in sign offs in the logbook and in work cards. The purpose of this report is to bring to light and to get the proper authority to either use the AFMM as a regulatory manual or remove it from all of the procedures.I constantly see all fleets maintenance manual references in work cards and on all information and see inconsistencies in that manual and the individual aircraft maintenance manuals. I also get mixed information on the AFMM legitimacy beyond what I read in the manual.
This task card instructs to drain water out of the fuel tanks. Stored aircraft fuel tanks have been treated with the hazardous chemical Biobor JL. There is no caution or warning in the document making the technician aware that precautions need to be taken. The fuel that is removed from the tank has to be disposed of in a particular way. There is no caution or warning for that either.Include cautions in the step for PPE (Personnel Protective Equipment) requirements and disposal of treated fuel. Include requirements in document header under tooling and under references to any applicable maintenance documents.
I was made aware that Aircraft X had undergone and engine run of both engines on date with No oil in either engine or gearboxes.I was informed that my name had come up as having signed and Task Card for draining both engines of oil and that the cockpit was not tagged per the AMM.I did NOT drain the tank or apply any part of the AMM regarding LOTO.The following is my statement regarding the sign offs of the Task card; and subsequent actions involving me directly.On date; I was assisting Mechanic during an Aircraft Storage Prep of Aircraft X. There were some initial questions regarding compliance with Block 10 of the Task card as it relates to draining the oil.After discussions with our lead mechanic; we decided that since it was late in the shift and to avoid any questions for the oncoming shift regarding what needed to be done I signed off the item at BLOCK 10 on the iPad (actually B2 on archived copy) and made a write up with directive instructions for a pass down of what needed to be done going forward.  After Log Page creation; midnight shift signed for the draining of the oil per the AMM and the next day the Log page was closed out after the remaining items in the initiating text were accomplished. We had also had discussed the extreme possibility that someone MIGHT run the engines with empty tanks and that Mechanic would; in addition to work accomplished by midnights; make an OPEN log page item for increased Logbook visibility of the empty tanks on both engines.Mechanics are obligated to properly document all work accomplished and defects noted. ANY new write-ups or updates to existing logs should have been made immediately and the supervisor notified. READ all associated Log Pages; AMMs; Job Instructions etc and UNDERSTAND what is being done and why. If there are ANY questions; mechanics should STOP until the actions to be taken are understood. In conclusion; KNOW the status of the aircraft by reviewing the log book; and crew turnover/briefing as necessary. Its should be emphasized to all Run crews; the importance of the proper use of checklists. Run mechanics are the critical link in this series of errors that could have prevented the run from taking place. Lastly my personal and professional opinion is that these two engines may not be safe for continued operation Especially the left engine. Why? Due to the inability to actually verify with no margin for error what internal damage could have occurred by running engines with No oil in the tank OR the gearboxes. Verbal or written recollections should be suspect; unless it can be backed up with run data possibly captured by the aircraft systems for verification of statements made about this event. If the NO OIL situation was missed; what makes Company; FAA feel justified that the rest of the statements are true with no corroboration. Safety of the equipment should be of prime concern here. Err on the extreme side of Safety Please.
Aircraft X was in a storage state during preservation maintenance when an engine run was accomplished on both #1 and #2 engines with their main oil tank empty and their respective main accessory gearbox drained of oil as well. This is an event that is unprecedented; I am here to focus on how serious this is in regards to determining serviceability of the subject engine(s). As an experienced lead AMT; I am no stranger to engine overhaul; test cell duties; diagnostic test flights or on-wing engine/taxi runs. I know how violent an engine reacts when it incurs an internal failure while in operation and to summarize the thought process; it's fortunate that many of these failures happen on the ground during maintenance but some unfortunately happen when an aircraft is in service and in flight.Every engine manufacturer designed these engines to operate normally on different phases of flight under different conditions providing that the operator/consumer; observes; adheres to all or any operational instructions provided. In regards to engine oil quantity; our company pre-run checklist; before an engine is even operated; it must contain a minimum of 1X quarts of main oil quantity as displayed in the flight deck. I have no doubt that an engine will still operate normally with lesser quantity if oil pressure and oil temps remain normal and no other abnormal parameters are observed. If an anomaly does happen during an engine operation that's related to oil and or lubrication system; especially those observed readings that can indicate an impending failure or incursion beyond its operating limits; the engine in operation must be stopped immediately. The company has ample resources available to address or troubleshoot these issues in the form of MMs; FIMs; TSMs; etc.; and likewise; all modern aircrafts has built in systems known as recorder mediums such as PCM; DMU; and FLT RCDR that can be downloaded as necessary to provide insight and health assessment to many operating parameters including engines at real time or recorded. With the issue we have; none of the recording mediums downloaded has provided us with any source of readings and or indications that may shed light as to how we can possibly approach and deal with this problem. Here's the issues that I have: These engines were run with no oil in tank and main accessory gearbox oil was drained as well. With the rate of speed that these engines operate even at idle; there are many parts within the scope of the lubrication systems that is dependent on proper oil pressure in order to maintain normal operating temp such as the huge thrust bearings; sideload bearings and other compartment bearings along with the other critical parts like the scavenge and pressure pumps. Common sense will also dictate that with no oil to begin with; these bearings and critical seals have now been exposed to undetermined excessive heat that may have inflicted heat damage and reduce life cycle on other parts. I have thoroughly searched the MM and TSM in hopes to provide me some insight on how to troubleshoot or address this issue and found none. In fact; due to my curiosity; I have checked all the other fleets troubleshooting manuals and was unsuccessful as well. The only fleet that came close to addressing an oil pressure issue involves the CFM engines and that's whenever its engine oil pressure goes below minimum limits that exceeds 30 seconds; the engine is to be replaced. Engines are just not designed to operate with the oil system drained and it's beyond my scope of knowledge and experience to determine serviceability. Unless an engine manufacturer can provide us insight; recommendations or have experienced a similar event and shares us the information and or make known to us what decision that had to be made; we and the Company is in a serious predicament. What we are being asked as part of the maintenance process are these EG callouts that instructs to check MCDs and perform numerous engine runs as to ascertain and prove its serviceability. These engine runs are unfounded and lack merit and frankly speaking; they are very dangerous. They clearly appear experimental; based on assumptions and not ECRA supported. These proving engine runs are best authorized and done in a test cell environment where it is safe and properly managed. In summation; these engines were not run with a low oil qty condition as many may have thought or have been misled to think. One would argue that it still had oil in the form of residuals in the lines and that would be enough to come to a conclusion that all the bearing compartments and other critical areas were not affected or heat damage is not a factor. These types of arguments are foolish and obviously do not share the same mindset as I and that is to operate with a mindset that's geared towards safety; legality and have a high degree of confidence that the right decision is made; without any doubts or reservations. The public views us as an airline of choice and as we transport them around; they expect guaranteed reliability; safety and comfort. In conclusion; the decisions to be made hinges on two different paths. One is to render the engine serviceable after maintenance proving runs that is unfounded; lack merit or support from many technicians and frankly speaking; the engine(s) are damaged goods! The other direction is to follow the only recourse that should have been in the first place. Stop these foolish maintenance practices that may prove dangerous downline and do what's right.
I was changing 3 main tires and a nose tire on a MD-11. It was raining; dark and pretty windy. I was just informed today that apparently on one of the tires I changed (#6); that the axle sleeve (which should not come off) did slide off with the old tire and all I can say is that I simply did not notice that it stuck in the tire or noticed when I packaged up the old tire that it was in the tire assembly. The aircraft departed my station the next day to ZZZ. There it had a #6 anti-skid issue and they had to change the transducer as it had been damaged. It flew to ZZZ1 next and when it arrived to the gate; the hubcap was broken; the anti-skid transducer again was damaged; tire pressure connector mangled and it was discovered the axle sleeve was missing. I knew the aircraft had been down in ZZZ1 for the incident; but it was not known to me until a few weeks later that the axle sleeve had been found at the vendor in the tire that I had changed in ZZZ2.Well; AMM 32-XX-XX-X-X does tell you to inspect the axle sleeve to ensure that the tab at the outboard end is not broken and is bent into the axle slot to prevent sleeve rotation. I obviously did not do that. To prevent this form of event from happening again; I need to slow down and examine my work more closely when I am doing repetitive jobs.
After takeoff landing gear handle was raised on schedule; but after the main mounts indicated up and locked the nose gear indicated an amber hash pattern indicating according to the Emergency/Abnormal. Preliminary inspection revealed the R/H nose gear door was damaged by the nose gear during gear retraction. After further investigation; it appears the R/H nose gear door was not in the over-center position (normal position) up against the open stops and caused the nose gear door rollers on the right side to strike the door bending the door edge during the retract sequence.I believe this is a design flaw and should be addressed by the OEM. Also train pilots to verify doors are in the fully open position and up against the stops. As maintenance vendor; some kind of verification that door is in the proper position during Post Maintenance.
On or about [date]. I was working on Aircraft X returning to service from short term storage. I was made aware today that on work card XX-XX-XX step XX.a.Xa water fire bottles are not installed on company aircraft; for step Y; Halon extinguishers they were removed from aircraft and weighed per AMM XX-XX-XX for step Z the LAV bottles also were removed and weighed per AMM XX-XY-XX.
I had just gotten done with my previous task when I needed something else to do around XA00. I looked at [Mechanics App] to see that the horizontal stabilizer gearbox lube needed to be complied with. So I went and grabbed a scissor lift and all my tools and consumables. I recently learned that the spanner tool that we use to remove the grease port sealing cap is not considered to be a tool but it's considered to be a part. I had to ask the stores clerk multiple times before I was able to obtain the tool. I serviced the HSTA gearbox In accordance with CRJ 900 AMM (Aircraft Maintenance Manual) task 12-XX-XX-XXX-XXX-XXX. I used the horizontal stab trim switch to rotate the gearbox; but I did not manually rotate the input shaft like the task says to do. My thought process was that I would just rotate the gearbox by cycling the horizontal stab all the way up and down 3 times instead of manually rotating the gearbox clockwise and counterclockwise with the hex socket and it would save me some time. My common sense tells me that this would rotate the equipment inside the gearbox so that I wouldn't have to rotate it manually. In order to spread the grease around thoroughly; I cycled the horizontal stab up and down 3 times to satisfy the AMM requirements of procedure 6 in the AMM task 12-XX-XX-XXX-XXX. I hadn't suspected that I had done anything wrong until the next night on shift when I was approached by my inspector.Insufficient training.I am still asking the question how this could be a safety violation and would appreciate some extra clarification or training on the subject.Have the brand new employees do more than just 3 days and RONS for the first 6 months. Have them do big jobs like this one where they can be more challenged and doing something new when they are with a maintenance training instructor. The Company already does this however; and the new sign behinds are getting on really big jobs early on. Has to do with the new employees level of experience.
While performing maintenance employed for Company; I was assigned to Aircraft X and was troubleshooting an ADS-B Fail on the aircraft. Part of the procedure is to put the aircraft in a 'wheels up' configuration. I disconnected both Proximity Switch Arms and placed the Arms on the reassembled bolt; washer; and spacer assembly to facilitate this action. I failed to place a marker streamer on the disconnected parts at the time they were disconnected. I was distracted because I was on the phone with tech support at the time I disconnected them and I intended to get back to the aircraft to install the streamers at a later time. I then continued to troubleshoot with the aircraft in the 'Air Mode'. Later in the morning; two additional technicians arrived at the aircraft to assist in the ADS-B troubleshooting. Around noon; I received a call for another AOG aircraft and gave a verbal turnover to the relieving technicians so I could work the other aircraft. During the verbal turnover; discussions were made briefly about the squat switches being disconnected but the majority of the turnover revolved around the complexity of the ADS-B failure to be worked and that we need to replace the GPS antenna. After working additional aircraft in ZZZ that day; I came back to the aircraft and powered the aircraft up and ADS-B Fail was gone. I worked on a couple of other discrepancies and then I signed the paperwork to release the aircraft. This failure in communication; specifically the emphasis on the squat switches being disconnected; distraction of other aircraft to be worked; and resulting failure of operational norms by not attaching a streamer resulted in the squat switches being left disconnected. I also have to state that it was a long week and I worked 18 hours the day before so fatigue may have also been a contributing factor. To prevent this from happening again in the future; I need to ensure that streamers are always installed on all removed; disconnected; or displaced parts or components immediately. I could also document that streamers are installed.
I was performing an Operational Test of the L/H (Left Hand) and R/H (Right Hand) Engine Fuel Shutoff valves. I had armed the L/H and R/H engine fire bottles according to the task and went to ensure that the shutoff valves were closed. After which I had told fellow mechanic [NAME] to return to the cockpit to disarm the fire bottles; reminding him not to press the green switchlights beneath the FIRE PUSH switchlights he was supposed to press. I had prepared to witness the shutoff valves close when I heard the sounds of the engine fire bottles discharging. Mechanic [NAME] had returned to me and I asked him which switch he had hit and he told me he had pressed both of the discharge switch/lights; confirming my suspicions. I returned to the cockpit and verified that the bottles had indeed discharged before pressing both FIRE PUSH switchlights and completing my original task before dealing with the aftermath.I'm not too sure what more could be done to mitigate the issue other than a shield of some sort covering the discharge switch/lights.
On the date of DATE me and another tech changed the high stage valve instead of the Nacelle pressure shut of valve; when opening up the engine we mistake the high stage valve for the shut off valve due to the fact that they are identical and close to each; we used the ipc to confirm the correct part number; but we was looking at the high stage valve. we used the wrong ref AMM 36-11-03 to change the high stage valve which we mistaken for the and nacelle shut off valve.In the AMM ref put a detailed step stating that there are two of the same valves that is right next to each other that is the same part number.
There are notices taped to the walls of the ZZZ terminal maintenance office instructing mechanics to stamp the tally sheets for accomplishments and/or deferrals. This seems to suggest after stamping the tally sheets the mechanics hand off the Bill of Work for release. GPM XX-YY states 'the individual responsible to release the aircraft is also responsible for verification of the completion of all related accountabilities.' This is true for system and non-system airplanes. The GPM continues; '...review must be accomplished by an ARA qualified individual and all included accountabilities stamped...' I interpret the passage meaning that an ARA is required to stamp the Tally sheets. If I'm correct the instructions hung at the ZZZ shop are incorrect...a mechanic can't simply stamp accomplishments in the Tally sheets unless they have ARAs.
I failed to control the situation correctly. This is my error only. I should have stopped Aircraft X when I was told that there was a roller possibly missing from the cargo door support on the rail. The door was reinstalled to the rail and allowed to continue. We are not allowed to fly with missing parts. I hesitated at the time but erroneously called this a non event and allowed Aircraft X to continue to ZZZ1 flight. This was my error.
I was assigned a Service check and an Acro seat inspection task card. After the service check we started the Acro seat inspection; on the inspection we are supposed to check the seatbelt webbing in ref to AMSAFE webbing service life guidelines. During the inspection I found a total of 71 seat belts. There were two different part numbers of seat belts that were on the plane. Part Number which is a dark blue seat belt and Part Number which is a light gray seat belt. To make sure these were the proper seat belts that go on the seats I researched in the Acro seat CMM to make sure we had the right part numbers for the right seats. For the black seats which have the dark blue seatbelts on them. For the light gray seats which have the light gray seat belts on them. At the time of the inspection we had 76 of the dark blue seat belts at ZZZ stores and 0 of the light gray in ZZZ stores. Of the 71 total seat belts 12 were dark blue and 59 were light gray. We ordered all 12 of the dark blue seat belts and replaced them. We found 16 of the light gray seat belts in free stock and replaced those. That left 43 light gray seat belts that I wrote up since there was no stock in ZZZ stores. My lead for the night requisitioned the seat belts for the defect and the aircraft was taken out of service. I left at my scheduled time that morning. I discovered that the morning of date the seat belts that we wrote up were replaced with the ineffective seat belts for those seats. The defects was then signed off by dayshift Supervisor.The cause of this event is due to the lack of integrity because instead of wanting to put the effective part on and waiting for those parts to get here. The wrong part numbers were told to be put on; without knowing by dayshift mechanics; why the plane was put out of service due to effective parts not being in stock. The dayshift Supervisor most likely wanted to get the plane flying as soon as possible and not worry about the effective part number. This is also due to the parts not being available at the station that is doing the task card/inspection.Increase quality assurance for the company as a whole organization and in each individual. Have planning make sure we have all the parts that we may possibly need in stock and ready at the time of inspection.
Yesterday we ordered 2 halon fire extinguisher bottles to replace our stock. Both bottles came with Form XXXX-X tags filled out for Next Due Date of weight inspection as 2029. Per the GMM XX-XX-XX Aircraft Emergency Equipment Inspection and Labeling Requirements XX(X) the Form XXXX-X is to be attached and completed as required. It does not give us any reference for what the time period is for the Next Due Date for weight. We have been using EC/RA # XXXX-XXXXX which states the due date for the next check is the date weighted/pressure checked plus 1 year. The bottles we received were 9 years. Are we using a different time period now for weighting?
I changed the sensor per fault code #27-XXXXX; F Prox Sensor; FIM 27-XX-XX-XXX-XXX. No help noted; OP/CK failed; made logbook entry and turned the job over. It was due to AMM picture and not enough lighting; hard location; limited material and during the work; they moved the airplane one place to another place. I will be very careful to follow the AMM R and R (Remove and Replace); will take picture before removal. Also will check if the parts can be installed backwards.
The installation instructions for the PMA (Parts Manufacturer Approval) approved Sky-Tec 122NL starter does not address the lack of clearance between the oil cooler and the starter wire terminal. The terminal chaffed a hole in the oil cooler; causing an oil leak in flight followed by smoke in the cockpit and an immediate return to the airport. There were no injuries or damage to the aircraft other than the oil cooler. This starter is not a direct replacement for the PA-28-140 as listed in the PMA and is also listed this way with [the] parts seller. Neither the Piper maintenance manual nor the manufacurers instructions address this issue.
[The Company] requested us to do an ad hoc flight from ZZZ1 - ZZZ and back to ZZZ1. [The] notification [was] sent out by [Dispatch] on [the] 3rd shift turnover at XA25. Departure was set for XE30 from ZZZ1. At XA45; [Dispatch] advised in email notification that the crew had been advised and release was sent. I was at home and the Maintenance Control Supervisor called me on my cell phone at XK38 to explain that the ad hoc flight had taken a delay leaving ZZZ1; and the crew no longer had enough time to make the return trip to ZZZ1 without exceeding their duty day.We discussed solutions. I told him I would call him back - I wanted to look at the GMM (General Maintenance Manual) for reference. I called [the Maintenance Control Supervisor] back at XK59 and told him that I would approve a Short-Term Escalation for the Line Check that was due at midnight. I approved the Short Term escalation based on the fact that the ad hoc flight was scheduled to go ZZZ1 - ZZZ - ZZZ1 with only a brief layover in ZZZ. It has been fueled for the round trip to eliminate the need for fueling in ZZZ. The aircraft was scheduled to return to ZZZ well prior to midnight.Unbeknownst to myself; the aircraft had a fuel delay leaving ZZZ1 - the fuel truck failed; which resulted in the crew requiring rest in ZZZ prior to the return trip. The aircraft had originally been scheduled to return to ZZZ1 well before the Line Check expired; and this was a repo flight back to the hub; therefore not a marketing reason. I also thought of using [another Company's] ZZZ Mechanic; to perform the Line Check prior to departure. However he had not worked on an ATR for us; and although he had been through Indoc training; he was not Airworthiness Release qualified. The Maintenance Controller on duty would have had to talk him through performing the Line Check step-by-step. I felt it was safer to extend the Line Check by a few hours and have it performed by an experienced Mechanic than to have an inexperienced Mechanic perform the check. I; therefore; approved the Short-Term Escalation. Better communication between [Dispatch] and Maintenance Control regarding the maintenance requirements of the aircraft prior to releasing it for the ad hoc flight. Also; once it was realized that the aircraft would not be returning prior to the midnight deadline; Management should have notified in order to plan for the maintenance to be performed. I also would suggest that Maintenance Control look in [the Records System] for maintenance coming due in order to ensure that there was nothing coming due prior to [the] return to the Maintenance base.
Aircraft X - log page; item #1 RNP placard [was] missing on center console. Looked up [the] EO (Engineering Order) for installation of RNP AR (Required Navigation Performance Authorization Required) 0.3 placard. Newly inducted aircraft that [was] delivered RNP.3 capable from Airbus. Looked up S.B. (Service Bulletin) XX-XXXX in [the] AMM (Aircraft Maintenance Manual) [for the] aircraft.Aircraft X was scheduled but not complied with. Called Maintenance Control. They could not answer any questions on what had been complied with or not. They kept pressuring [to] just put a placard on. I said I needed clarification [on] what has been complied with per [the] EO; REV AF step 2. A copy of this EO should have been emailed to [Company] Maintenance Control; Company Engineering. But Maintenance Control could not verify.Time was short for departure. We called Engineering. They verified that Aircraft X was received from Airbus RNP.3 capable. I installed the placard and verified in Trax those were the original MMR's (Multi-Mode Receiver) from Airbus. I should have completed an EAR (Engineering Authorization Resolution) from Engineering but I didn't. On the log page I just referenced the EO.Lack of resources. And peer pressure from Maintenance Control. Better communication and ability to view records of compliance. Safety before on time performance!!!
Worked on Aircraft X. Aircraft X had previous Class 2 faults on ELAC (Elevator Aileron Computer) 2 that was placed on MEL at a previous station. Per the MIC 77XXXXX; ZZZ requested that ELAC 2 be replaced. I proceeded to replace ELAC 2; printed out aircraft maintenance manual reference and made sure that the part is effective for the aircraft. However; I was unaware that there was supplemental information in the aircraft maintenance manual; stating that software configuration checks need to match for ELAC 1 and 2. I replaced ELAC 2 with the knowledge that it is effective for the aircraft. I am not qualified; so I asked somebody else to perform the Cat 3 configuration test.I think the event occurred because the IPC (Illustrated Parts Catalog) is unclear on the software modification information. Also; the Supplemental information does not pop up when opening the manual for the R/R (Repair and Replace).Provide training for personnel about ELAC software compatibility. Make the information a Warning in RED letters so the individual can read and understand that the software configuration cannot be different between ELAC systems.
A Manager is coercing me to sign off work too quickly. This would mean work in a reckless; un-safe and illegal manner. It's an atmosphere of tension and pressure. Clearly it violates the company policy. The policy is designed to prevent accidents. Signing off work prematurely is a violation of FAR's and the Company [Procedures Manual] General Policy and Procedure Manual. Driving too fast violates airport regulations. I received a disciplinary letter threatening termination. It claims I took too long to accomplish a task. The flight wasn't delayed and was completed before my quitting time. The letter contains inaccuracies. Most of the delay was in the hands of the Inspection Department. Part of the delay was running the engines; then waiting for the fuel to settle. The delays were outside my control. I was never offered help. Manager never questioned Inspection Department about the delay. I have no idea why I am being pressured into signing off work faster. I completed the task before quitting time and the flight wasn't delayed. I have never received a verbal warning about my job performance. Have Management actually use the policy. Have Management provide more training. If the Mechanic and Inspector are issued a newly published job card that they have never seen; have someone coach them on the new card. Don't issue fuel sampling/test work cards unless there is a diagram labeling which tank is which. Train all the inspectors on how to do fuel bio test. That way they won't be loading pressure on the only Inspector authorized to preform test. Before mailing disciplinary letter; conduct an investigation regarding the work. Actually speak to the Mechanic getting the letter and speak to all people involved. It will eliminate falsely accusing a Mechanic of working too slow because accidents happen when he goes too fast. Don't demand work [to] be signed off until it's ready.The Job Card didn't have diagrams showing and labeling which fuel tank was which.
While troubleshooting Log Page # XXXXXXX; anti-skid status message MEL; [I] discovered [that the] #5 Main Landing Gear wheel assembly magnetic flux ring [was] missing from [the] wheel. [The] wheel assembly was changed [on a later date] on Log Page #YYYYYYY.
Aircraft X arrived to the gate with FAA-required marking outside of [the] FO (First Officer) window stenciled with white color - this is wrong. The word should be stenciled red on [a] white background. See Log XXXXXXX for details.
We ordered 2 water fire extinguishers from [the] stores and they both came with the next due date on the M175-e tag blank. One bottle was last checked [last year] on the front of the tag and if we use the ECRA 0510-XXXXX the weight has to be checked yearly. So; this extinguisher would require [a] weigh in [a few] days. [The] extinguisher was taken to inspection and reweighed and [to see if] there [was] a way to change the shelf life of [the] M175-E tag [to be] filled out for [the] next due date in a year.To prevent this; on Form #45-XXXX; [the] Non-Rotable Parts Tag that came with the extinguisher and has a shelf life limit of [a few years] - which is the next hydro due date? Is [the correct] date to the next weigh date or next hydro due date - whichever is sooner? Or do we need to create a next service weigh date program for stores so when we get an extinguisher from [the] stores that comes with more than 75 days on the next weigh date as per the B737 #2 SVC Card B737-XX-XXXX? This should be in effect for both the water and Halon fire extinguishers.
ZZZ Hangar X; day shift; Aircraft X. Reference ZZZ [Routine Overnight Layover Check Work]. Non-routine for [Logbook Deferral Sheet] XXXXXXX. Working DFDAU (Digital Flight Data Acquisition Unit) fault. Replaced DFDAU IAW (In Accordance With) AMM (Aircraft Maintenance Manual) 31-XX-XX. Installation was complete except for [the] very last step of installation. I wrote a separate item on non-routine XXXXXXX; Item Number 5 on page 2 of 3. I wrote that; per AMM 31-XX-XX-XXX Step F (3); [one] must accomplish verification of aircraft number on the DFDAU initialization page.Is this to be accomplished on the DFDAU computer; or done through the DFDAU page on the MCDU (Multipurpose Control and Display Unit)? The AMM steps were unclear and did not match what we were seeing on the aircraft. At [the] end of shift; I had called [Operations Control] for guidance. They were unsure how to advise us to proceed; and we were waiting to hear back from them. That is why I made sure to write a separate item for it. When I came in the next day; Aircraft X was green and being delivered to the terminal for revenue service. I inquired how the open item was completed because I wanted to know for future reference. After trying to get a solid answer; no one in avionics said they worked it; and Management could not give me an answer either.[The] Maintenance Supervisor was [the] acting Supervisor on [today] and was also in [tomorrow]. I asked him how it had been completed. He told me someone had found an AMM reference that covered it; and he asked an afternoon shift Crew Chief to go look at it. It was at that point I decided to follow up and check the paperwork once it had been entered into AirVault. I was able to see it in AirVault today. That is when I found Item 5 of non-routine XXXXXXX to still be open/not signed for.This should've been caught when non-routine XXXXXXX was audited prior to aircraft release. Better communication between Maintenance and Supervision. Who was responsible for knowing that this issue was still open? The non-routine should not have passed audit.
While performing rudder lube tasks for aircraft [coming out of] storage; the aircraft rudder was inadvertently damaged during the removal of the flight control lock.During restoring the aircraft to normal condition after completion of rudder Lube AMM XX-XX-XX/XXX; AMM YY-YY-YY-YYY-YYY an additional lift/personnel should have been in place to remove pressure off lock rather than move rudder hydraulically to enable removing rudder lock.
On DATE Aircraft X was pushing off of gate. While removing the tug from the aircraft; the tug struck the R/H NLG door. A Ramp CSM came out to take a look at it; and told the flight crew that there was no damage and that the flight was safe to continue. The flight crew said that they felt a bump from the flight deck and wanted Maintenance to come out and look at it. The aircraft returned to the gate and Maintenance did a GVI and found that the push pull rod for the door retraction was bent and the aircraft would need to be removed from service. The flight continued on with a different aircraft and Aircraft X was repositioned to the hangar. During initial inspection at the hangar it was noticed that the push pull rod was actually broken and had separated from the door.The event occurred in my opinion because the ramp wanted to avoid a lengthy delay; and wanted an on time departure. The Ramp CSM's have done this in the past and obviously continue to do this now.Let Maintenance do the job we are trained to do.
I was asked to inspect the right MLG (Main Landing Gear) assembly per job card XXX. On page 2 of the job card is a note that the 'Aircraft Must Be On Jacks'. The right MLG was supported by an axle jack and both wheel and brake assemblies were removed. I was to accomplish Step 3: DETAILED INSPECTION OF MLG; SLIDING TUBE; BRAKE ATTACHMENT FLANGE; UPPER AND LOWER TORQUE LINKS; UPPER AND LOWER TORQUE LINK PINS AND APEX PIN & NUT - EXTERNAL SURFACES; EXCEPT WHERE COVERED BY DRESSINGS AND BUSH FLANGES; and Step 4: DETAILED INSPECTION OF MLG; MAIN FITTING; FWD PINTLE PIN; FWD PINTLE PIN LOCK/ STUB BOLTS; REAR PINTLE PIN & NUT; RETRACTION ACTUATOR ATTACHMENT PINS & UPPER DIAPHRAGM CROSS PIN - EXTERNAL SURFACES; EXCEPT WHERE COVERED BY DRESSINGS & BUSH FLANGES.I read the note on page 2 of the job card; which stated the Aircraft Must Be On Jacks. I began inspecting the MLG but could not access all the points described because the axle jack interfered. I stated in a Work In Progress entry in [software] what items I inspected as well as a Work In Progress that the Aircraft needed to be jacked to complete the job card. The job card was completed without the aircraft being placed on jacks. Steps 5 & 6 of the job card are mechanic steps; however they require measurements to be taken with the weight off the gear. By using an axle jack to support the gear; inaccurate measurements may be obtained; and excessive wear fails to be identified. This job card is normally sequenced in the check to be accomplished after the aircraft is jacked; I noted that it is scheduled on day XX.I would suggest having this job card worked after the aircraft is jacked as the normal workflow shows.
This morning; I was told to troubleshoot a BLEED 2 Fault caution message deferral on an ERJ 175. [I] interrogated [the] CMC (Central Maintenance Computer) and found codes that were flagging the high stage bleed valve and the nacelle pressure regulating shutoff valve as two of the major faults. Troubleshot per FIM 36-XX-XX-XXX-XXX but was having difficulty figuring out [the] effectivity of aircraft software version. Found effectivity and troubleshot accordingly. Performed Bleed 2 TM (Technical Manual) Controller IBIT (Initiated Built-In Test) both channels and the check passed. The discrepancy was signed off as a transitory condition per FIM 36-XX-XX and the valve was un-deferred.After paperwork was done; the Supervisor and I revisited the issue and decided it was smart to run the engine to make absolutely sure the issue was resolved. While trying to engage the RH (Right Hand) engine bleed air system; the BLEED 2 Fault caution message came back into view; flagging the NAPRSOV (Nacelle Pressure Regulating Shutoff Valve) - the valve that was supposedly deferred before troubleshooting started. The aircraft was needed for dispatch so I consulted Inspections/Quality Control about fixing paperwork to allow for the valve to remain on deferral instead of clearing the deferral like originally intended. They said they'd try and later told me to create a non-routine write-up for the troubleshooting work performed and [to] carry forward the original deferral due to lack of time; aircraft needed for dispatch. I did said paperwork and re-deferred what I thought was the NAPRSOV referencing MEL 36-XX-XX; with MEL 36-YY-YY accompanying it as a requirement to apply MEL 36-XX-XX; but I didn't notice that it was in fact not the NAPRSOV to begin with but the high stage bleed valve that was deactivated initially. Due to paperwork and system issues; Contract Maintenance was called out to the aircraft at a different base to verify the maintenance action being correctly complied with and found the wrong valve deferred. I was in a rush due to the aircraft being needed for dispatch and flustered with the complexities of troubleshooting this issue. I looked up the deactivation process for the NAPRSOV but accidentally overlooked the fact that it was the aft valve not the forward one like I had thought it was. [Some suggestions could be] possibly labeling the valves somehow; such as a metal placard and band that can be taken off and installed on a new valve in the event that it needs to be changed. A toolbox talk would be nice to spread awareness of the different places of the valves. Due to the part numbers of both the NAPRSOV and the high stage bleed valve being the same; the only difference in function is where they're installed on the aircraft; which happens to be almost right next to each other. Though; that being said; now that I think about it the AMM isn't unclear about it in the first place; so I can't really blame unclear paperwork. ALSO a toolbox talk about where to find epic load and CMC LDI software versions on an ERJ 175 would have helped as well.
I was a part of a crew along with NAME and NAME1 to downjack Aircraft X off jacks while trying to accomplish a landing gear health check. During the procedure the aircraft came off the nose jack; and caused puncture damaged to the lower forward belly skin. After further examination we realized we had failed to remove the tail stand. The aircraft tail stand did not have a safety alarm installed.The tail stands in the hangar used to have alarms installed on them. We might want to consider making sure we have the safety devices installed on all of our tail stands on company wide.
Aircraft X came in with an inbound write up for 'FWD ENTRY OUTSIDE DOOR HANDLE OUT UPON ARRIVAL' performed an operational check to verify and found that the door handle on the exterior side was not springing back into place. Troubleshooting in accordance with FIM (Flight Information Manual) task 52-10-00-810-811 found that the door required further inspection of the internal spring. I then informed my Crew Chief; that the door had multiple RII (Required Inspection Item) areas and that this was going to take a lot of time. Crew Chief then called the Supervisor on duty and informed him about what we had found and for further inspection that it would require RII was this something that he wanted done on the line? Supervisor and his Manager along with the Crew Chiefs then went to the airplane to verify what we had already found. Supervisor and his Manager instructed the Crew Chiefs to have us lube the exterior portion of the door handle. I then questioned my Crew Chief about the fact that the FIM I had been using did not indicate that as a probable fix for the door and where was the Manager's reference telling us to lube the door handle? My Crew Chiefs instructed me to lube the exterior of the door handle as per Manager's request and that Supervisor or his Manager would sign the item off; along with the Airworthiness Release.Supervisor did not want to reposition the aircraft to be worked at the hangar.
I along with NAME; were assigned to Aircraft X. The aircraft was turned over from 2nd shift. There was an APU MEL that was troubleshot by NAME1. He informed me what was found per T/S and told me; 'Oh BTW the #2 tire is bad'. I was wondering if it was bad; why wasn't it in the logbook? The tire was indeed worn. Workload consisted of a Service Check; APU Start MEL; and TAC for #2 brake. In addition to those items were a VHF #3 inbound write-up that wasn't relayed to the lead. Our night began around 0000. According to the lead; who texted me @ 0014; the order of agenda were the Service Check; TAC; and APU MEL. Once the check was started; there were findings that needed to be addressed or that would have resulted in a gate call in the morning. The items consisted of both NLG tires; Captain/First Officer glare shield light relamping; FWD galley Flight Attendant flashlight strap broken; Torn Aft cargo compartment net; Row 23 ABC sidewall lights need relamped; and #2 MLG tire worn. We informed the lead on shift (NAME3) that we needed the brake in order to take care of the TAC. He told NAME and I that it was ordered and would come from the warehouse and would be dropped off at the gate. The lead said that he would try to get us some help to change the brake. In the meantime; NAME and I went to lunch once the lead told us the brake would come later. When we returned from lunch; we researched the IPC and AMM references for the cargo net and nose tires. We replaced the cargo net and NLG tires. We gathered the tire and equipment for the brake. At that time we were still waiting for the brake. We worked the remaining logbook entries; found the inbound regarding the VHF 3 bleed through to VHF. NAME and I researched the TSM for VHF bleed through; but did not have enough time to find proper TSM; we were only able to find VHF ops check. We performed VHF ops check which found no faults; but did not sign off due to not having right TSM reference. We had no time to replace tire and brake; which arrived at from the warehouse; and we went to the office to enter in paperwork and turnover. Once we got to the office; the supervisor; NAME4; began inquiring and interrogating myself and NAME about the brake and the APU MEL. We told him there were items that were addressed per the Service Check in addition to the VHF 3 write-up. He accused my partner and myself of deliberately taking the aircraft out of service; when we were simply doing our job; which is what we were written up for on date. The 2nd lead on duty; NAME5; was made aware that the aircraft was more than likely going to be OTS. For whatever reason; the supervisor called the aircraft out of service later in the day. A get-it-done by any means mindset from the supervisors down to the 3rd shift leads. The climate is totally different on 3rd shift than it is on 1st and 2nd; which is my regular shift. I can work on days and not have to worry about being written up for my job performance; which I have never had an issue in X years with the company. I have made observations and mechanics on 3rd can attest to the pressure and bullying that they have to work under from the leads and management.I have worked tirelessly along with my counterpart to ensure we work under safe conditions and an environment that's conducive to getting the job done; safely and efficiently. There is no regard for safety and well-being of mechanics whatsoever. We recently had a mechanic return to work after being out Y months with head injury. Leads have continued to assign individual; as well as others to planes on remote pads. Once asked about continuing to put the above mechanic in harms way; the lead's (NAME6) response was 'He'll take responsibility if anything happens to him'. With the current climate along with our responsibility; mechanics should not feel additional and constant pressure regarding their jobs from management. This supervisor has been notified on many occasions in the past about his work practices;which include creating a tense; stressful; hostile and unsafe work environment for maintenance personnel; intimidating and bird-dogging mechanics; as well as contacting the mechanics instead of going to his leads for A/C status. Morale has taken a toll in which mechanics have no faith and trust in the leads and management. I myself have had recent health issues in which stress from this incident have resulted in taking time from work in order to address. To avoid reoccurrence of any future events would require the supervisor to be reassigned to another work group or terminated.
Maintenance Log pages for Aircraft X (engine 2) fan blades were reviewed by Maintenance Control. During our review; following [the Manual's Operating Procedure] Maintenance Control selected the -8 trackers to be attached to the engine. Aircraft Records Dept are attaching the blades to the individual -9 component not the engine; per the fan map received from the engineering dept. This can be verified using the transaction IES; the next highest assembly displayed is not the engine. If Maintenance Control cannot trust this process; maybe Maintenance Control should be setting up the -8 completely; or eliminating Maintenance Control entirely from determining how to attach the -8 item. Aircraft Records and Maintenance Control are interpreting [the Manual's Operating Procedure] differently. Fan blades should be attached to their respective engine. Maintenance Control does not want to continuously generate [technical inspections] to verify fan blade serial numbers. We need to process the -8 in accordance with [the Manual's Operating Procedure]leaving only one responsible party to determine whether it should be Airframe; engine; gear; or -9 component; this may avoid disassembling the entire fan; to verify a serial number. The fan maps are not reliable for accuracy of the serial number today. [The Manual's Operating Procedure] needs to be clearly followed. Keeping the fan blades attached to their respective engine.
I was tasked to perform a trend on Aircraft X; to replace the rudder trim knob; due to the knob coming loose. I removed old knob and installed the new knob. as I was not able to find a reference to replace the knob; I used task in the AMM. Under this reference is sub task which tells of testing the rudder trim system via the knob. At the time; the trim functioned without any noted problems.On take off from ZZZ the aircraft experienced a rudder trim run away event.Instead of using AMM for a reference for replacing the rudder trim knob; the CMM (Component Maintenance Manual) should be referenced in the AMM for knob replacement. Could not find a CMM reference; so I thought there was no reference for this.Rudder Trim Control Panel replaced due to event.The AMM reference should direct to the CMM for maintenance on the rudder trim panel and it's components; as the CMM was difficult for me to find.
Aircraft X Battery was replaced due to the log book write up; low voltage; APU would not start with low battery voltage.Storage procedure required battery disconnect not to drain down. Believe this would have occurred sometime.These aircraft were parked due to unusual circumstances. Procedures were changing often. I hope a job card is developed to eliminate any future confusion.
I was made aware that Aircraft X had overflown a few repetitive inspections. It was determined that the re-inspect items were FACTED out [in the program] rather than deferred; continue inspection. [The] desk advised myself and another [technician] that the MOD should stop the aircraft due to the overfly condition. I had just came on shift when this occurred. I coordinated with the Workload Supervisor to have the FACT removed and made into an INFO item; so that the TII's could be assigned to ZZZ for the Overnight BOW. The items were again FACTED out by ZZZ and again changed to an INFO [item] and the aircraft continued on the next day.I suspect that when the mechanic FACTED out the item; his only option were to either DEFER; which he wouldn't do since he did the inspection; or ACCOMPLISH; wherein he take accountability for his inspection. Sometimes SAFE provided the mechanic with ACCOMPLISHED-RE-INSPECT; and those are put into SAFE as an INFO.Ensure that the mechanic is given a drop down menu option of ACCOMPLISHED-RE-INSPECT; rather than just ACCOMPLISHED; so that he and his station may take credit for the work assigned to the BOW. In addition; the AFMM 20.11.33 states; if not repaired within the 120-day limit; Maintenance Control can extend the TII or MON (Monitor) for an additional 120-day period. Maintenance Control can extend this terminating action limit as many times as required until downtime; parts and manpower are available to address the deferral. This extension and continuing re-inspect will create opportunities for instances such as this to occur. My recommendation is that the 120 day permanent repair be held firm; with no extension.
Aircraft X required a weight on wheels 'H' check of the NLG (Nose Landing Gear) and right MLG (Main Landing Gear). We centered the ladder in between the NLG doors and I began to install the pressure gauge to the top fitting on the NLG strut. While doing so the ladder must have shifted positions. During this time I never heard any loud hissing to indicate to me that air was being released due to extreme noise from our A/C and other A/C & vehicles in the vicinity. My partner went up to turn off the A/C power due to the noise level. A few minutes after coming down from the ladder I noticed the left NLG door sitting on top of the ladder. I immediately moved the ladder to prevent any further damage. I suspect that air escaped from the t-handle on top of the tooling and due to the noise I wasn't able to hear it. The very slow release of air may have caused us to not notice the plane had shifted.
Aircraft X arrived at ZZZ. After opening cowling we found a cracked intersect duct and Bleed Valve with wiring damaged and PRSOV (Pressure and Regulating Shutoff Valve) bracket cracked. Parts ordered and next shift started working. Serviceable Bleed Valve; Intersect Duct; PRSOV Bracket were installed by other shift. I finished the installation of the PRSOV and it's ducting. There were problems installing the ducting to the PRSOV without using undue force. We had to remove and rotate ducting upline of the Valve in order to line everything up. We previously had the clamps clocked correctly; but apparently missed one after the final tightening of all clamps.  Possibly the Maintenance Manual could be written so that the final installation step was to check for proper orientation of clamps before closing cowling. i.e. 36-XX-XX-XX-XX X.C. (7) to 36-XX-XX-XX-XX X.C.(13). Steps outlined in Maintenance Manual could be written in better order. Such as making sure of correct clocking of couplings as LAST step prior to closing.
On Day 0; Aircraft X was pushed back from [its spot] at approximately XX:25 hrs. At XX:29 hrs a call was received from the flight deck to Operations Control concerning a possible aircraft damage from an improper release from the tug. A manual task was created to dispatch an AMT to [the spot] for an inspection of the nose gear. After a few moments a crowd had gathered around the nose gear area and the Captain was conversing with some individuals on the ground through the flight deck window. A few minutes passed and a cell phone call was received by Person A in the Hangar from the Ramp Maintenance Director. Ramp Maintenance Director had told Person A that the aircraft sustained no damage and was good for flight. Person A relayed that information to myself; [and] Operations Control.Immediately after the call from Ramp Maintenance Director stating the aircraft had no damage from the improper push back; both the Hangar and Operations Control were under the impression that an AMT had inspected the nose gear area and informed the Maintenance Director on the ramp that the aircraft was clear and the call was then made to the Hangar stating that fact. After a few minutes had passed another radio call was placed to Operations Control from the flight deck asking when the AMT's would arrive. It was at that time I realized that the AMT's had not arrived on [the spot] to perform the nose gear inspection and that we were given false information by the Ramp Maintenance Director. I then called the on duty Coordinator and was informed the AMT's were enroute to [the spot] to accomplish the nose gear inspection. The AMT's arrived on [the spot] at XX:45 hrs and noticed the damage to the R/H nose gear door linkage as well as minor damage to the R/H nose gear door and called Aircraft X not airworthy. The aircraft was then taxied under power to [the spot] and the aircraft was called [out of service] at that time. The aircraft was later repositioned to the hangar for repairs.This event occurred due to the fact that the ramp crew pushed out an Aircraft X on [the spot] incorrectly thus damaging the nose gear door and nose gear door linkage. The Ramp Maintenance Director then informed Operations Control and Hangar with false information which started some confusion of the airworthiness of Aircraft X on [the spot].Re-train the ramp crews the correct way to accomplish the push out of the aircraft. Inform the Ramp Maintenance Director not to inspect aircraft of suspected aircraft damage or to inform the Hangar or Operations Control whether an aircraft is airworthy or not. Leave it for the licensed aircraft mechanics. The Hangar and Operations Control will no longer accept information from the ramp or Maintenance Director regarding aircraft damage. The Hangar and Operations Control will ensure phone or radio contact at a minimum with Maintenance Control AMT's or Maintenance Control management to ensure any aircraft damage is airworthy or not.
We had performed scheduled maintenance on a BK117C2. We also performed troubleshooting of a fuel quantity fluctuation issue. 2 main tank fuel probes were removed and inspected; one was replaced. After the fuel probes were reinstalled the aircraft was moved outside for refueling and leak checks. During this time I was doing all the log book entries that were told to me. I did not enter any fuel probe entries as I wasn't performing the MX and didn't have any paperwork at that time. As time went on we got in a hurry to return the aircraft to service and none of the fuel probe work was documented by myself or the mechanic that performed the MX. The aircraft was returned to service without the correct paperwork and flew back to [the] hospital at ZZZ where it is based. I received a call from one of the mechanics asking if the panels had been reinstalled and I told him that I didn't know as I didn't perform the maintenance. It was then that we discovered that the panels were in fact not reinstalled. I immediately called my supervisor and reported the undocumented maintenance and we took the aircraft back out of service and sent mechanics to reinstall the panels and complete the paperwork correctly. I believe that we were rushing maintenance to get the aircraft in service and crucial steps were missed.Perform a more detailed passover between mechanics; Communicate better between Mechanics.
On Aircraft X found left nose landing gear tire worn to limits; removed and replaced left nose gear tire I.A.W. (In Accordance With) B767 AMM 32-45-02 and serviced tire to 175 psi.During shop vist found nose landgear tire from Aircraft X to still had tang washer installed on tire and not to be installed on tire on aircraft.
A/C X arrived in ZZZ on DATE at [late evening]. Aircraft had a Transit Check accomplished on the overnight. Aircraft sat on the ground for 36 hours; and was assigned another Transit Check on DATE1. On the workcard for the Transit Check for Oil Servicing; (1) Has OSP entry been made in AML since last flight?(a) If 'YES'; proceed to Step 2.C.(1). and enter the OSP Authorization Code.(b) If 'NO'; proceed to Step 2.B. Our answer is 'YES' because it was accomplished the night before. Step 2.C. Record oil Information below:NoteWhen recording oil added; record the partial pint; in 1/8 increments; in decimal equivalent only; i.e. 1/8 = 0.125;1/ 4 = 0.250; 3/8 = 0.375; 1/2 = 0.500; 5/8 = 0.625; 3/4 = 0.750; 7/8 = 0.875. For example; if 1-1/8 pints areadded; record as 1.125.(1) OSP and AML entries.Record OSP Authorization Code: __________________Make sure that the OSP Authorization Code is entered in the AML. Quality Control is briefing management and supervisors that AMT's are required to transcribe the OSP information from previous check to logbook page with current Airworthiness Release for the current check. This results in multiple Airworthiness Releases with the same OSP information until the aircraft flies next.AMT's interpret the statement 'Make sure that the OSP Authorization Code is entered in the AML' as verifying that this information has previously been entered in the AML; NOT continuously transcribing this information multiple times for each assigned check that has been accomplished until the engines have been serviced after the aircrafts next flight.Asking for compliance to clarify to AMT's; QC and management on the proper way this documentation should be accomplished. Or change the statement to read 'If OSP has been previously entered in AML; no further OSP entries are required to be entered in the AML.'
On the evening shift; I was assigned the borescope for an ITT (Indicated Turbine Temperature) exceedance. During the examination; I found that the ports for examining the LPT (Low Pressure Turbine) section 19 and 20 were seized. Knowing that I had to video the LPT in order to be able to complete the borescope; I used the path through the front side of the stage 2 HPT (High Pressure Turbine) blades to access the LPT stage 1 guide vanes and the stage 1 LPT Blades. I did not think that I needed to gain permission from GE to be able to look at the LPT from that angle. I was focused on finishing the borescope and did not think that I needed to DMI (Deferred Maintenance Item) the plugs as well. Perhaps a separate job card for the ITT exceedance [can be] created; which could include the details for examining the LPT as well as what to do if inspection ports 19 and 20 are found to be seized.
I was assigned to Aircraft X; a 787 coming in from ZZZZ going back to ZZZ. Upon arrival it required an ETOPS pre-departure check; engine oils serviced; and an MEL for CABIN INTERPHONE INOP to be cleared and [a] restoration [of] the aircraft's [Maintenance Release]. As soon as the aircraft arrived at Gate XX; Maintenance received a call from Ramp notifying us that there was something sticking out of from the left-hand wing just above #1 Engine Pylon. I knew they were talking about the speed tape that Tech Support and I installed for a write-up we cleared earlier that day.Routinely; I go directly to the Flight Deck to do my ETOPS inspections and take note of engine oil quantity. Per the Task Card; everything was in order and I radioed my Lead asking for a lift and some speed tape for the wing. While waiting for him; I ran some tests and cycled various circuit breakers in an attempt to clear [the] CABIN INTERPHONE message on the center aisle Tuning Control Panel (TCP). The message did not go away and I didn't have enough ground time to troubleshoot further. I would have to 're-defer' this MEL later.Once I finished the inside; I went downstairs when my Lead called me over. He was on the lift and told me he will return with the wider roll of speed tape. I said okay; I will join after I have accomplished servicing the engine oils and doing my walk-around. I grabbed the 3 engine oil cans I needed and continued to service the #1 Engine which only needed 1 QT. After filling up the #1 Engine I moved on to Engine #2 which needed 2 QTS. Once finished; I stored the used cans and did my walk-around. Finally; I went back upstairs to the Flight Deck to ensure the engine oil levels were sufficient and they were.While in the Flight Deck; I planned on waiting for the flight crew so I could brief them about the INOP CABIN INTERPHONE message on the TCP that I was going to 're-defer.' In the meantime; I decided to keep attempting to troubleshoot. It was my first experience with the 787 dealing with a system fault which failed to show up on the EICAS Status Page. Usually any little discrepancy would be displayed on the status page. My theory is perhaps it was because the interphone was still functional. I kept trying to think of anything I could do to just get rid of the INOP message on the TCP.My time was up when the flight crew arrived. After briefing them about the issue; I joined my Lead who just finished up with the wing. He had me go up on the lift to verify the speed tape installation and it was satisfactory. We finished up at the gate and returned back to the office. I signed off all of the assigned work for the aircraft. [The] ZZZ Planner assisted us with the 're-defer' on the MEL and I issued the aircraft's [Maintenance Release]. Later on that day; I received a phone call from my Manager informing me that Aircraft X had to divert to ZZZ1 due to excessive loss of oil from the #2 Engine. It was [in] that moment [that] I realized I may have been too distracted from the other workload [to] properly secure the filler cap on the oil tank.
In compliance with the FAA directives for water sanitation due to time constraints we started to just replace the lav faucets with serviceable units from stock.  The manual requires a 24 hour soak in sanitizer and RON work this cannot be complied with so we sent them to the shop for this.  It was discovered that when in the shop this step was being left out because work was being done per MM and it lacks the sanitation step.  This was brought to quality control and shop management.  The answer was to send these out to a vendor who still follows the MM and they are still not getting the required sanitation step.
An aircraft had an air return for the loss of number 1 engine; green; hydraulic pressure; no loss of fluid. The aircraft was moved to the hangar on day shift for repair. We motored the engine and observed the pressure coming from the pump: it increased to 3000 psi then fell off. The aircraft was moved inside and the cowlings were opened up for inspection of the EDP (Engine Driven Pump). There were no external leaks or external damage to the EDP. We continued to inspect the fluid lines from the pump to the pylon disconnect. It was found that the fluid supply line had become disconnected at the pylon connection; it was further noticed that the locking section of the pylon side of the fluid supply line quick disconnect was not locking to the line side. We suspect the line vibrated off; starving the pump and the loss of pressure. The disconnect; pump; and case drain were replaced.
I was told to go to the gate at ZZZ airport to inspect a write up on an ERJ175. The write up stated that the pilots were not able to get cool air in the cockpit during cruise; but the packs worked and blew cool air on ground. It was written up previously and was a repeat write up. Because this was a repeat and there were no EICAS (Engine Indication and Crew Alerting System) messages reported; I decided to interrogate the CMC (Central Maintenance Computer) for active faults and faults stored on the previous flight. I found two fault codes on the current leg as active with no inactive time stamp showing it was resolved. I then went to active faults and both codes were stored as active there as well. The two fault codes were 21000020AM2 and 21000030AM2. Following the FIM (Fault Isolation Manual); the problem was a fault with SPDA (Secondary Power Distribution Assembly) 2 Module 26. I inspected the MEL (Minimum Equipment List) list and there was no deferral for this item. I informed my lead and ordered parts needed for repair. The parts would not arrive until the next morning so I was told it would be days. Shortly after arriving at work; I was informed that it was signed off as left pack deferred and flew out. Looking at the fault codes; the fault was for more than just the pack system which made it non-deferrable.Days did not follow the turn over stating that the faults were active and that the problem was with the SPDA 2 Module 26. They also did not look up fault in FIM and followed the procedures. This allowed for a broken plane to have a different part to be deferred while the actual problem was not addressed. Mechanics need to follow manuals and carefully read shift turnover.
During a maintenance evaluation test flight; the right engine had an un-commanded shut down and could not be restarted. It was found the fuel outlet tube coming from the MEC [Main Engine Control] going to the fuel flow transmitter had come loose and was leaking from the MEC  side. The last documented time this hose was disturbed was during the right engine MEC replacement. When the tube was installed a new gasket was used and noticed no other defects with the installation of the tube. The bolts attaching the end were not drilled for safety wire but no defects with the run on torque were noticed. The aircraft had been run multiple times for high power runs and idle runs for troubleshooting and no leaks had shown up in the few days the aircraft was out of service. The tube may have disturbed during the fuel pump replacement for access to the oil scavenge tubes but it is not a part of the task.
I have made a mistake on the Deferred in Place (DIP) for Aircraft X; Engineering Change Release Authorization (ECRA) X.The 8110-3 is good 12 months; but mistakenly; I asked planning to contact us after 24 months for revised ECRA.As of DATE X (2019) the aircraft had a total of 25;904 total aircraft flight cycles.As of today the aircraft the aircraft has 26;568 total aircraft flight cycles.The aircraft has been over flown by 664 Flight Cycles.The aircraft is in storage at ZZZ.We have received the revised 8110-3 for stage 2 and 3.The initial inspection is required at 32;041 Total Aircraft Flight Hours.As of today the aircraft the aircraft has 26;568 total aircraft flight cycles.So we haven't skipped any required inspection.
Maintenance actions performed after discovery of cause of #2 engine in flight shutdown. After troubleshooting the inflight shutdown cause to the #2 engine Main Equipment Center discharge to fuel flow transmitter line; which found loose hardware on the Main Equipment Center side connection resulting in a gasket failure; I removed the entire line in order to facilitate the gasket replacement. I had researched the hardware located on the Main Equipment Center side of the line in order to determine if the hardware was a contributing factor to the failure. I had also utilized two Aircraft Maintenance Manual references in order to remove and install the named tube; one for Main Equipment Center replacement (Aircraft Maintenance Manual 73-XX-XX) and one for fuel flow transmitter (Aircraft Maintenance Manual 73-XX-XX). While the fuel flow transmitter Aircraft Maintenance Manual reference does state a removal step from the Main Equipment Center for the gasket; I wanted to ensure I had the proper reference. I believe I had misinterpreted the detail pertaining to the attaching hardware for both ends of the tube in both Aircraft Maintenance Manual references and the IPC reference describing bolt length and washer use as determined by the service bulletins mentioned in both Aircraft Maintenance Manual references; and subsequently installed hardware in the opposing end of the tube; resulting in washers being where they should not be.Suggestions on how to correct the reported concern? Two person verification of components being installed that have service bulletin changes affecting them. Communication between peers and peer-to-leadership when encountering potentially confusing instructions within technical documents in order to determine difficulties that may arise and address solutions before actions are taken on-wing.
The NEF 52-40c; requires a Door Verification for the integrity and condition of the metallic speed tape application PRIOR TO EACH DEPARTURE. The grand majority of the AMT are not documenting this verification in logbook; because the (M) procedure instructions in this NEF are very confusing. The AML is classified as the major historical record of the aircraft since it contains records of pilot reported irregularities; 'ACTION TAKEN'. Every Action Taken must be documented in the AML as required per GPM section 05.01. To make this situation more complicated for the MOC-MCTs the MOCPM section 03.06.5 (A) 1. Requires that a Maintenance Hold will be applied to an aircraft when MOC has identified a task that must be accomplished prior to flight departure; The MCT is required to remove Maintenance Hold and release the aircraft when 'POSITIVE' confirmation that the task has been accomplished. the problem with this is that we cannot do a positive confirmation if the verification Action Taken required per the NEF was not documented in the logbook. This MEL verification procedure must be corrected to ensure traceability with the FAA/CASS DEPT; and the safety of our flight crew and passenger. In order to correct this issue a logbook entry signifying verification of the tape; must be required to be in compliances with the GPM section 05.01 and FAR 14 CFR 121.701.
This is a SAFETY concern. In order to issue the B737 MEL 35-XXX for the Passenger Oxygen Complete System inop; Boeing MEL 'M' procedure; step 'e' requires portable oxygen units to be provided for at least 10% of the passengers. Our 737 NG aircraft is configured for 160 passengers. If we multiply this number by 0.10%; [it] is equal to 16 portable oxygen units that are required to be in compliances with the MEL instructions. During the last MEL Rev 60-XX; a note was added to the 'M' procedure for clarification. This note reads the following. 'The B737 NG is equipped with sufficient portable oxygen CAPACITY to provide for 10% of the passengers; provided that no more than one bottle is inoperative or missing.' The information provided on this note contradicts the 'M' procedure and requirements to issue this placard. The 737 NG is not equipped with sufficient portable oxygen units for 10% of the passengers in accordance with our emergency equipment configuration. There are only 6 portable oxygen units available in the cabin for the passengers. The amount of oxygen available for the passengers should not be measured based on the CAPACITY of oxygen available in the aircraft; but the AMOUNT of units available to assist multiple; different passengers in the event of an emergency.This MEL is a SAFETY hazard for our passenger and flight crew; and should be corrected as soon as possible due to compliances.
Aircraft X arrived in ZZZ with a PIREP (Pilot Report) 'AMBER ECAM MSG COND FWD CRG ISOL VALVE'. A history check revealed that the aircraft had the same fault on [the day prior] and MEL 21-XXX C/N 11XXXXX was applied. The MEL (Minimum Equipment List) was cleared by ZZZ1 Maintenance on the RON (Remain Overnight) and the fault repeated during [the] flight to ZZZ. Since it didn't complete 1 flight cycle before faulting again I re-opened the MEL 21-XXX C/N 11XXXXX. About 1/2 hour later began researching for a TSM (Trouble Shooting Manual) and parts to update the item and that is when I found that the aircraft does not have a FWD cargo isolation valve installed. The MEL does not contain any effectivity information and the aircraft was clearly faulting a FWD cargo isolation valve. I had never heard of an Airbus displaying an ECAM (Electronic Centralized Aircraft Monitor) fault of a component that is not installed in the aircraft and had no reason to question that MEL 21-XXX was not an acceptable deferral for the fault.If aircraft effectivity was contained in the MEL this would have been avoided.
The station received an e-mail to correct the logbook of Aircraft X. Contract maintenance; NAME; (NUMBER); at ZZZ replaced the SPCU on DATE. He failed to enter the item in the logbook. Upon further investigation; I found NAME unqualified on Company planes and logbook in Software.DATE; TIMEUpon clarification from tech; the SPCU was documented in the logbook. However; the galley battery meter module was not documented in the logbook. We're confirming the part number and performing ops check for the module.
Had Aircraft X assigned to me and Mechanic on my shift DATE third shift. Aircraft X had an inbound write up for potable water system inop. The t/s was started on first shift DATE and continued thru second shift. Parts was changed and panels remove but when I got aircraft assigned to me and my work partner there was no work turnover in the log book or no form 10194. My work partner and I was expected to continue work on the issue with on clear understanding with what work was actually done. The event occurred because of improper turnover.Document work that is done.
DATE.  First day back from days Off; started at TIME and was turned over 2 out of service aircraft; and a ferry flight.  Turnover for ferry flight was everything in order will require the inspection sign off and MFD; it was to be a 3 leg ferry due to biobore in the tanks.   Each leg requiring a new MFD (Maintenance Ferry Document).  First leg was scheduled for a XA:30 departure.  During this time I was updating logs; fielding phone calls; and reviewing ferry checklist.  Started to review ferry documents and noted that there were a few overtime items that were not documented in the logbook on logs N and 5N1. I then documented the missing items under log page N2.  Overdue items were transcribed.  Under this transaction you will find open log pages; open work control packages; and overtime items.  Aircraft was then issued MFD.  Checklist completed.2nd leg of ferry was ZZZ-ZZZ1.  Ferry arrange was prepared and sent when aircraft arrived ZZZ.  I discussed the inbound discrepancies with ZZZ;  a dual tire replacement due to one tire being underinflated.  We noted; log page N as stating one or more items have been identified as overtime or becoming overtime.  I again reviewed maintenance release and noted no change in items.  Paperwork was completed; inbound discrepancies addressed and MFD issued.3rd leg of ferry was ZZZ1-ZZZ2.  During review of paperwork in preparation for ferry; it was noted 2 additional items under maintenance release as being expired.  It was during this time I discovered that these 2 items must have expired in flight and were not in a log item or on the MFD.  Part of the Ferry checklist is to ensure time-controlled workload items that will expire by the end of the flight are documented.Task Card X and -0024 GVI (General Visual Inspection) Strut 1 and 2 Insp appear to have expired in flight.  At this point I spoke with my co-worker and we generated another log with the 2 out of time items.  I was asked if it showed due in maintenance release.  My reply was that I have been viewing out of time items under maintenance release which will show task that are currently out of time vs forecasted task.  My oversight led to expiring of time-controlled workload items in flight.  Policies; procedures and processes are area that I feel I am thorough in.  For me this is a lesson learned and something that I will not forget in future ferry flights.
With this report; I am trying to find an answer to my questions that have gone unanswered regarding the concern I have with the use of the B737-Max nose landing gear wheel onto the B737-NG. The IPC (Illustrated Parts Catalog) says you can use 737-Max Nose Wheel XXXXXXXXX on the 737-NG; they are interchangeable but once this MAX wheel is installed; it does not turn freely like the other wheels. Something seems wrong. After removing the wheel to inspect why it wouldn't spin; I inspected the wheel bearings from the MAX wheel and found out that the MAX wheel uses an outer bearing that is not listed on the 737-NG IPC. Part Number XXXA-XXXXX. Can you use a wheel that is listed on the IPC; but the wheel bearing is not? The MAX IPC does not break down the nose wheel assembly like the 737-NG IPC does. Maybe I missed something? So; my concern is that the wheel does not spin freely and the outer bearing is not listed on the 737-NG IPC. I see the 737-NG flying with the 737-MAX nose wheel. But I have refused to install this wheel until I can get an answer to my question. Part number of the MAX wheel bearing should be listed in the 737-NG IPC737-NG IPC-XX-YY-ZZ-AB737-MAX IPC-XX-YY-ZZ-BA
I was involved in an Aircraft Damage event. The work assignments for myself and coworker was a rather heavy. We had two aircraft that were loaded with MELs that required Troubleshooting. The night was chilly with heavy winds. My coworker and I were dealing with an aircraft that came in with an NGS degraded inbound and an Autobrake MEL with history that we were trying to T/S to the correct fix. The autobrake MEL was taking a considerable amount of time and we were having difficulty finding the issue using the FIM. We decided to return to the shop to run some questions through our leadership. We were asking our leaders for some suggestions because Company said that a SYMD was needed to fix the AC but we could not find it listed at all in the FIM. While we were having this discussion another lead starts chiming in just replace the SYMD because Company said it was what was needed. We were trying to avoid replacing that unit because it would require more maintenance task to be performed. If it wasn't going to fix the issue we didn't want to create more work for ourselves. He was insistent on us changing the SYMD and making the comment that we shouldn't be overthinking this. This ended up making me flustered so we went back to Aircraft X and changed the SYMD. It did not fix the issue so now we had created more work for us for no reason and just added more internal pressure to myself because we were getting behind on our work and it was getting late in the night so we decided to separate and I drove over to Aircraft X which was on a remote pad instead of being on a gate like the Matrix stated. This just created more annoyances to distract me. I finally get to Aircraft X and meet up with our Tech Foreman to get direction on the CPC MEL that was scheduled to be cleared tonight. We had a discussion that he was going to take the CPCs and download the EVM data to find out which CPC was INOP since they both were BIT checking good. I was just going to wait at Aircraft X until he came back with the results. This ended up taking quite a bit of time and I get a phone call from leadership asking where my coworker and I were at with our assignments. I told him that two of our four planes were completed that they just required paperwork to be turned in. I told him that the other two were still in work and that my partner and I separated to try and get both aircraft done. I asked him if he would like me to leave Aircraft X and head back to the shop and he said yes because it was [late in the day] and he was being asked about the paperwork. I said no problem I'll go back to the shop and submit the other two airplanes. After the paperwork was submitted I checked in with the Tech Foreman and he told me that the #2 CPC needed changed due to an internal fault. No problem I thought. As I am walking away leadership asks me how long will it take to complete R/R the CPC and Ops Checks. I said I don't know maybe 30 minutes. He said okay. I go back to aircraft and looked at the time and realized it was starting to get really late in the night. I jump out of my High Speed Tug and thought I had set the parking brake. I jump up into the E/E and start installing the CPCs. As I am sitting in there the plane rocks a little bit. I thought nothing of it because tonight it was extremely windy and I just assumed that it was just another super gust since all the planes were rocking tonight. When I get out of the E/E I noticed that the Highspeed had rolled into Aircraft X with the rubber guard on the cab touching the plane. I panicked and jumped into the Highspeed and backed it away and looked at the area of the airplane and didn't initially see damage. I thought I had gotten lucky and that the cab bumper saved the aircraft from damage. I went into the airplane and finished the Ops checks to the CPC and cleared the MEL. The thought of what happened was still in my head so I checked the area again noticed that there was damage to the aircraft. I then went back to theshop and notified my leadership. I was instructed to map out the damage so I did. After that was completed I turned the results of the Map over to Dayshift.
I deferred a defect for the VHF Comm broken knobs on the observer audio panel for Aircraft X. I used MEL 23-XX-XX-XX. I incorrectly interpreted this MEL for the observer audio panel when the MEL states that 2 Communications Systems (VHF) are installed. So the assumption is that the observer audio panel is excluded from this and it only applies to the Captain and First Officer. The Aircraft had accomplished one flight from ZZZ to ZZZ1. I had discovered the error a few hours after. The MEL is confusing for my level of experience; and suggest that this MEL be reviewed and changes made to it.
Aircraft X had a BTB for a Captain pitot static amber EICAS warning. We quickly determined it was a probe. We have an FAK with a R/H probe in inventory. We needed an LH probe. We were able to get one from company; we installed the probe; Ops checked probe; accomplished the paperwork. Had multiple conversations with Tech and [Maintenance Control]. Deferred the aerodynamic sealant with a 767 desk. No mention in B767 MM 34-11-01 OF RII . ETOPS was noted for ice/rain (mm 30-31). When I awoke this AM; I had a friend look up in GMM ATA 34 FOR RII and then notified [Maintenance Control] of a possible situation my next step was my report. There was 1 mechanic at ZZZ that was ETOPS qualified; me who accomplished task; [and] we had another who was RII but not ETOPS.
While troubleshooting an audio squeal at the Captain's cockpit station; ZZZ AMT discovered the AMU in the E/E was overheated. After removing the unit and allowing it to cool off; the AMTs found the rack cooling plugs were filled with a rubber plug. Given that this aircraft was less than 2 weeks old; it was believed that the rack cooling holes were inadvertently left plugged. The ZZZ AMTs misread the plug configuration placard on the rack; and my department did as well. As the [Maintenance] Manager; I allowed the aircraft to depart with the plugs removed. Boeing confirmed on the following day that the plugs should have been installed. The aircraft operated one leg out of configuration before corrective actions were taken.
During thrust reverser cycling #2 eng inadvertently started causing over temp to 821.5 to 28 seconds. As per MM 71-00-00-800-804-f00; [it] will require boroscope due to temp going into area C of chart. I did not notice that the APU bleed was left on and I did not pull ignition circuit breakers. [I] had 2 techs clearing around engine.
We had walked into the hanger that morning and found out that we were doing an engine change. The engine had already been removed and needed to be installed. My Supervisor was the one in charge of the operation and he had wanted us hang the engine on the FWD top mount first then the AFT mount and then the bottom FWD mount. The task has you install the AFT mount 1st and then the 2 FWD mount; but since I had worked with him before on engine installs I just followed his lead. We had got the 1st mount installed on the aircraft we ran into some trouble on the AFT mount. We had ended up damaging both the upper and lower cowling and 2 hinge fitting panels. Later I had found out that the 2 panels were supposed to be removed before the engine ever can off the plane. We ended up pulling the engine back off aircraft and on removal the engine had snapped down and had made a small nick on the FWD mount. My other Supervisor (who was working with us the whole time) was trying to tell me that the damage was no big deal when I knew that the FWD mount had no damage limits. I had ended up writing up the damage to all 3 parts that got damaged.I believe that the damage to the aircraft could have been prevented if the 2 panels had been removed and we had followed the task in order. There should also be note in the task stating that the AFT mount needs to go in 1st. I also believe that supervisors shouldn't be doing the work of the mechanics. They seem to have a time ordinated mentally over a safety one.
I was complying with a functional check of the aileron cable tension in the forward cargo area. With this task you must remove the forward bulk head right hand panel and cargo area floor boards. After the aileron cable tension checks; I completed the job card signing off all the tasks including the completion of the bulk head blow out panel and floor boards. I failed to secure the floor boards and the bulk head panel resulting in the aircraft flying in an unsafe condition in which could of resulted in a catastrophic result. As a maintainer it is my responsibility to make the sure any and all aircraft is it a 100% airworthy. In the future; any task that is not completed will not be signed to make sure it is completed to ensure the aircraft is airworthy.
Incident / Discovery: Maintenance work light / flash light found in the the nose landing gear wheel well which resulted in an air return of the aircraft.Aircraft location: Aircraft X B737-800 was located in the parking area at ZZZ Airport.Work Conditions: Night time; outside; no spot lighting or ambient lighting. Sky conditions clear. Temperature 30(s) Fahrenheit.On the night; Coworker and I were assigned to troubleshoot log X 'Unable to access APU bite' Per previous log entry of being suspect; I replaced the R735 relay in the J20 box; took us some time to locate the J20 box and the relay because the WDM and IPC were not clear on the exact location. 2-3 hours to locate on aircraft. This junction box is located behind the L/H rear pressure panel of the nose landing gear box structure. However; access was difficult to the box from the nose landing gear area due to the angle of access and aircraft height. In turn; I climbed into the E/E bay with a blue hand light; head lamp and a No. 2 Philips screw driver; maneuvered/positioned myself over the flight deck air supply duct along the left side of the nose wheel box structure to get better access to the J20 cover; Relay 735 and associated cannon plug for troubleshooting purposes. Coworker was in support from the nose landing gear wheel well to hand me various items I needed to work through the access structure.As documented in the log; the relay did not correct the issue so we continued to troubleshoot which required continuous access to the J20 box. I was mainly working from inside the E/E bay; not from the nose landing gear wheel well.As the night progressed and not finding any faults with the physical wiring; we reported to our lead where we were at. Was told that the aircraft is needed for a flight; document where we were at and close up the aircraft.We headed back out to the aircraft. When we got back to Aircraft X; I double checked the APU ECU security; checked the aft cargo bay for equipment and tools; closed the aft cargo bay door. I then proceeded into the E/E bay to secure the J20 box cover and check for security and check for tools and equipment. As I was doing this; Coworker was securing the nose landing gear wheel well pressure panel.After Coworker finished installing the panel; I went inside the flight deck to re-engage two circuit breakers and to pressurize the aircraft for the leak check of the pressure panel. Once pressurized; Lead performed the leak check of the pressure panel. When leak check was satisfactory; I depressurized the aircraft; powered down; closed the main cabin door and pulled the air stairs. Shortly after we met in the vehicle we had and began going over paper work.Coworker and I are somewhat new to avionics and have a lot to learn about the various differences between our fleet types and associated details of each. We are very capable of doing the work but would feel more comfortable to be paired with someone who is well seasoned in the avionics shop. It should be this way for anyone that is new. Since I have been in the shop; I have been paired mainly with inexperienced technicians who are learning the same way as I am; learn as you go. Common sense would dictate to pair a very experienced tech with a inexperienced tech; this promotes growth; development and prevents mistakes.I'm sorry that this unfortunate mistake took place and is an oversight I strive to never let happen; unfortunately it did. I will be much more vigilant in the future about tooling and equipment used for aircraft maintenance to make sure this will never happen on my end again.
Captain reported that the CPDLC [Controller-Pilot Data Link Communications] accept and reject buttons were switched; this caused 2 occasions of erroneous reject responses being sent to ATC. On arrival switches were confirmed in the wrong place (IPC (Illustrated Parts Catalog) 31-10-51-02) and switched back (SWPM (Standard Wiring Practices Manual) 20-84-13). This report is to raise awareness that these switches can be inadvertently transposed.
During accomplishment of portable water system disinfect done by using ozone cart; as instructed by fellow mechanic assigned as support; (name unknown). I might have improperly connected the water supply line. This happened at ZZZ [Gate] around XA:00 [Date]. As soon as I noticed water coming out of the aft fuselage drain holes; I immediately stopped the re circulation process; notified crew chef; dumped over serviced wasted and requested for assistance form tech crew personnel.Lack of work experience with this specific task on my part; lack of assigned training; inability to complete work interdependently due to not having D1 endorsement and being able to drive on airport premises and move around with equipment and tools. Hostile work environment.Assigned training required to completed before being assigned to perform ozone cards; different diameter or tread pattern on water fill line attainment port preventing from improper installation; picture diagrams included in revised work card; hands on ozone unit classroom training; ZZZ ramp driving credentials; hangar access in below freezing conditions; better gate illumination; larger port markings allowing to differentiate between both ports housed only 3 ft. apart.
The mechanic who was assigned to work Aircraft X by chance found that the hydraulic reservoirs and accumulators for the green and yellow systems still had danger tags stating 'do not pressurize hydraulics' still hanging from them. These tags were dated XX/Sep/2020 and were from another company.
I am filing this for the technician that was tasked with this job. Aircraft X had a log to flush blue system hydraulics due to contaminated hydraulic fluid. The procedure in the AMM called out for a tool to purify the hydraulic fluid which [our] company didn't have. The mechanics were then told to follow the AMM until they came to a 'roadblock' and then figure it out from there. Eventually they used the Hydraulic Mule; which got contaminated; and figured out a way to flush it through the RAT (Ram Air Turbine) system. Capturing the contaminated fluid became another issue as no one could determine at what pressure this fluid would exit the line. Furthermore; because there was no procedure in place for this task no one could give guidance on what pressure to dial into the Mule in order to get the fluid pushed out (they eventually started at 50 psi and worked their way up to approx 2000 psi which was adequate to complete the task. Whoever wrote the task card should have ensured there was a viable AMM or procedure to accomplish this task and that the correct tooling was in place. We are now aware of several other Airbus aircraft around the system going through the exact same hydraulic contamination issue. In the case of [another] aircraft; it is the Green and Yellow systems that are affected which would necessitate a gear swing if i understand correctly. Could the ERC (event review committee) pleased use all resources to ensure proper procedures and tooling are in place prior to tasks like this one being assigned. Also; is it possible to find out the source of this hydraulic contamination?
After being notified by Management & Safety about Aircraft X air return was due to a (new) nose gear down lock safety pin installed and 5 each (normal equipment) were found in E&E (electronics bay) equipment stowage. The ETOPS inspection was performed with no need for the use of 5 each landing gear down lock safety pins. At no time was red streamer visible during ETOPS inspection.
Company service center notified of hydraulic seal failure on Aircraft X.Company mobile service unit began addressing/performing maintenance; determining a filter seal located on the hydraulic power unit had failed.Company mobile service provider/mechanic; after assembling the aircraft hydraulic unit prior to test running on Date company Mechanic notices he had left to aircraft generator in on position overnight causing aircraft main battery to result in insufficient voltage to power aircraft. GPU was then used for unknown attempts for starting right engine. Starting sequence for Aircraft X is 2 attempts then 2 hour for cooling prior a third attempt.On Date; mechanic reports right engine N2 only spoiling up to 24% N2 after inducing fuel.Company ask company Mechanic to perform a boroscope to the right engine.The boroscope that company performed indicated that the #2 turbine was missing fins to the internal component.On Date; company 2 determined that the engine was to be removed and sent to manufacturer for repair.
On [Date] I was given the work assignment of running the #1 engine on Aircraft X for a BUG (Back-Up Generator) operational and leak check by my lead mechanic; ref log page. I knew that there was a fuel leak in the pylon for the #1 engine as I had written it up the day before; ref log page. At this time the left wing had 30;000 lbs of fuel in it to help find the leak source into the pylon. I declined to run the engine to verify the operation of the relatively minor repair of the BUG replacement compared to the danger of fire from an active fuel leak into the #1 engine's pylon. I explained my reasoning to the pair of shift foreman. They went away and returned with the directive to 'Run the Engine' regardless of the fuel leak or my concerns. The foreman said the Operating Manager had directed this.  At this point I decided to run the engine as they ordered me to do rather than risk losing my job. I ran the engine with an eye for protecting my work partners and the aircraft as much as possible given the situation management forced me into. As the days have gone by since this happened it has bothered me more and more until I felt I had to reach out to the [Aviation Safety Action Program] and Ground Safety committees. Please take note of [Company] Engine Run Policy [Number].'At no time will safety be compromised for operational reasons'.
On (Date); the Company Service Center in ZZZ received a report that the Fault Tolerant ADIRU had a navigation performance system failure that the pilot reported resulting in the crew and aircraft becoming lost during a recent flight. The component was returned to the United States. The US personnel reviewing the failure indicated that the failure was due to an undetected failure of a ring laser gyro resulting in drift that went undetected by the FTADIRU. This is concerning as another Aircraft X went missing having the same navigation system. A Aircraft X type; full of passengers should not 'get lost' due to a navigation system failure; but the engineers confirmed this was certainly possible upon analyzing the failure in detail.
ZZZ Hangar has aircraft engines not located in a shop or a controlled environment. These engines are susceptible to strikes and damage and may go unreported. The location of the engines are in Bay X the should never be left in this condition (Company) needs better control measures. 3 engines and even more in other areas.Create a secure engine staging area or preferably a closed and locked shop to prevent any tampering or incorrect robbing of any undocumented parts.
Crew reported the right generator fell offline. They started a descent into ZZZ and the engine started vibrating. The crew elected to keep the engine running (per checklist) due to the weather and winds at ZZZ. The gear box was cracked at the starter pad area and the starter broke off of the engine with the shear point failing to break.  The starter generator was subject to a recommended service letter from Cessna SL510-80-02.  It does not require replacement of the generator. It recommends it due to some prematurely failed starter generators. Cessna informed; that although a 'handful' of the Mod level A;B; or C starter generators did not make it to their 1500 hr overhaul limit. Only one had a failure of this magnitude. In my mind if this was a possibility none of these lower mod level starters should be in service. The starter/gen had approx 300 hours left before overhaul and gave no prior signs of failure i.e. bearing 'dust' on the cowling.
Aircraft X in ZZZ with pilot discrepancy 'F/CTL FLAPS FAULT. ECAM OCCURRED ON APPROACH WHEN MOVING FLAP LEVER FROM 1 TO 2. AFTER RECYCLING FLAP LEVER PER ECAM; FLAPS OPERATED NORMALLY.' Post flight report indicated flap jam in flight phase 6 cruise. 4th shift started troubleshooting per TSM and I was assigned to continue. TSM stated both flap actuators were required to be changed in the event of a jam with no faults due to known icing problem. Concurred with Maintenance Control that this was desired and safest step to continue. Gave all information to my crew chief; and supervisor and that the plane needs to be taken out of service until the parts are removed and replaced. Supervisor outlined that his boss argued that it's not the problem and proceeded to find any way to keep aircraft green. Both myself and work partner were pressured for well over the night to not ground Aircraft X and call it good. We raised the fact the TSM explicitly states with no faults both actuators must be changed. Due to ongoing peer pressure I reluctantly agreed to sign Aircraft X airworthy on the technicality that although the aircraft is reporting a flap jam; the phase of flight it occurred was in cruise and probably an indication error. However; prior to Date on Date-1 the exact fault and exact write up was entered. Corrective action from ZZZ2 base was a reset of LH #1 torque limiter. The TSM for this faults states that when resetting a flap torque limiter; the TSM refers to lubricate drive system; do a detail inspection and replace rotary actuator which have a tripped torque limiter. This was not done in ZZZ2 when an indicator was tripped; reset; and signed off. See [Logbook Entry]. I advised Maintenance Control and supervision of this oversight and advocated for replacing flap actuators.Event occurred because management doesn't take un airworthy as acceptable.Keep management where it belongs. Managing their supervisors and leave the technical aspect to the mechanics with the proper steps and actions from the manuals.
I went out to assist with a engine run for a fellow employee who was changing a scavenge oil transmitter. When I arrived to the [Aircraft] he said he had everything ready and just need to do a engine run to see if the message stayed away. I proceeded to run the engine at idle for 5 minutes and the impending clog light never came on. During the run all engine parameters were completely normal and nothing noteworthy was noticed. I shut down the engine and let him know that no message appeared. My coworker forgot to install the O-rings on the transmitter and inflight the oil quantity went to zero. The plane had to make a diversion into ZZZ1.
Aircraft X was an air return back into ZZZ; for the standby display cool fan malfunction causing the display screens to overheat. This aircraft was ferrying to ZZZ1 for a repair. During troubleshooting it was decided that the problem could be relays K7HK and K11HK in JB2. The relays were replaced per the AMM (Aircraft Maintenance Manual) CH24/ESPM (Electrical Standard Practices Manual) and did not fix the problem. The next likely part was the avionics cooling control panel; it was replaced per AMM CH21 and did fix the problem. Because I had removed JB2; a retest had to be performed per the AMM CH24. The first half of this complex task was done in the hangar. The second half requires the engines to be ran. Everything was checking out good per the AMM; until the final engine start. During the start sequence on the LH (Left Hand) engine everything seemed to be normal; then I received an APU Overtemp red warning message which distracted me from watching the LH engine parameters. After the APU Overtemp message cleared I noticed the LH engine ITT (Interstage Turbine Temperature) at 998 degrees. I immediately put the LH thrust lever to fuel cutoff and motored the engine until the ITT was below 120 degrees. The MDC (Maintenance Diagnostic Computer) engine exceedance history showed the LH engine to be at 1110 degrees for 10.6 seconds. This is the first time I have ever encountered 2 overtemp events or 2 red warning indications at the same time while working one of our aircraft. I was working hard to get this task done so the crew could move the aircraft yet that day; as they were standing by in the hangar to depart after repairs were completed. I must admit I did feel pressured and hurried; however I did complete the retest task per the AMM; with everything checking satisfactory. As for the engine hot start event; I really regret it happening. It seems like it was one of those situations that does not occur together all that often. I felt I was distracted and was task overloaded for maybe a second or two which played a factor in this unfortunate event.
I was working on my Aircraft X on [Date]; when I started my work the day was windy above 40 knots so my  screen inspection was postponed. I was then helping my partner on the service check inspection assigned to him. Later on in the night around the wind slowed down. I had already picked up my job packings (seals) and a tire pressure gauge. When I started to set up to do my job card my partner went to stores to get me a torque wrench. I completed the TGB (Transfer Gear Box) inspection screens for both Engine 1 and Engine 2. Two coworkers [Name] and [Name1] preformed both 1 and 2 engine run. I preformed leak check inspections on both engines; I found no leaks. I heard that the aircraft I was working on had an oil leak. I don't know if the oil leak had anything to do with the work I preformed on the engines. I don't believe I properly documented the inspection for Engine 1 scavenge screen. This is my first time doing this job; I believe my work was preformed good; although my paper work was not documented properly; at the time it seamed that I needed to preform both engine inspections.
Requested 131;000 lbs of fuel at departure. Speaking with fueler; Name 1; and myself all agreed to put 40;000 lbs of fuel in the #3 fuel tank. I was in the flight deck while #3 fuel tank was being fueled. Once the fueler was done fueling the #3 fuel tank Name 1 verified the fuel added by verifying the fuel sticks #6 and #7 in fuel tank #3. We then entered the fuel stick numbers into the fuel stick calculator where we determined the total fuel added to tank #3. We got approximately 36;600 lbs of fuel. We then went to the maintenance office and consulted with our lead. We had determined that the fueler had shorted us on the fuel load for fuel tank #3. We then called to have an additional 3;000 lbs of fuel added to fuel tank #3. Once the additional fuel was added to fuel tank #3 we verified this on stick #6 multiple times by both Name 1 and myself. Stick #7 had already been checked and was indicating full. We verified stick #6 and it too indicated the correct calculated fuel for fuel tank #3. We used the fuel calculator to verify again that we had the correct fuel in tank #3 with 40;000/lbs. Once this was all done we discussed with the flight crew the error that occurred with the first fuel load and the addition 3;000 lbs added to fuel tank #3 to give us a total of 40;000 lbs of fuel for fuel tank #3. They were content with this and after deicing the aircraft we pushed them off the gate. Once the aircraft departed; I gave the log sheet to my lead Name 2 to enter into workbench. He had entered it as was written. During the last fuel upload to tank #3 I made a correction to the log page indicating the new stick indications for sticks 6 and 7 giving us a total fuel load in tank # 3 of 40;000 lbs. I forgot to correct this new total fuel on the log sheet. However; the stick indications showed that the correct fuel was in tank #3. The engine flameout I feel needs to be investigate further to determine if there was something that we could have done to prevent this.
Aircraft X has had two tail pipe fires on March XXth and XYth reported to the pilot by the Flight Attendant; Passengers and another aircraft that was behind them. Both times the engine was ran and signed off as no faults; it would appear that there is an issue if there have been two tailpipe fires in one week.  The Number 2 engine has also used twice the amount of oil as the Number 1 for the month of March. Number 2 engine is leaking a large amount of oil into the tail pipe causing a tail pipe fire two times. Investigate leak and repair.
While performing Removal of MAU (Module Avionics Unit) 2; The first step is to remove the EICC (Emergency Integrated Control Center). The first step in removal of the EICC is to de-energize HOT BUS 1. I performed the procedure of removing battery 1 connector; removing external power and tagging the overhead panel. Ground power cord was removed; and external power door shut and tagged. I removed the rain cover and connectors to the EICC. I was in the process of removing the power and ground feed cables to the EICC at the back of the unit. I backed the ground wire nut most of the way off and started on the battery 1 wire. While removing the nut from the battery 1 cable my ratchet hit the aileron bell crank and an electrical arc occurred. The arc was massive. I than noticed glowing coming from the aileron cable force cables. I ran to the cockpit and removed the fire extinguisher. When I returned to the fwd electronics bay area; the cables were still glowing. I discharged the extinguisher onto the force cables. One quick burst on the captain's side and one quick burst on the co pilots' side. Verifying no more glow; I had co workers go get the lead and sup. I was working off my IPAD.
Aircraft X migrated from [program] to [program 1] records tracking.Prior to migration; [Logbook Deferral Sheet] 70XXXXXX was issued for replacement of the RH MLG FWD Trunion pin at next gear replacement and [Logbook Deferral Sheet] 70XXXXXY was issued for inspection of the pin each 24 month interval as required per [Repair Document] 32-XX-XX-X. At system migration [Logbook Deferral Sheet] 70XXXXXX was converted to [Logbook Deferral Sheet] 02XXXXX and [Logbook Deferral Sheet] 70XXXXXY was deleted. Therefore; the previous accomplishment history doesn't appear to be available since the [Logbook Deferral Sheet] is no longer accessible in [program]. [Maintenance Operations Manual] 03.XX.X states in part; 'Review all [documentation] for correctness of deferral reference; repetitive and/or terminating action.' During system migration the repetitive action requirements are not being transferred to the surviving [Logbook Deferral Sheet].I just happened to catch this one (and will update with a [Repair Document] revised inspection interval) but it is a systemic issue and virtually every migrated item that previously had a separate [Logbook Deferral Sheet] for an interim inspection will have a high potential of missing a required inspection because the previous tracking items are being deleted without the data being transferred and Maintenance Control not have access to the precious item history. As a side note; when Maintenance Control does a Spec Table update we are required to enter ZZZ (line) for the function to work. This results in the entry appearing as if it was made by a ZZZ line station person instead of coming from Maintenance Control. This is inaccurate.
Aircraft X was ready to depart ZZZ. Mechanic called maintenance for a Class 2 Air Bleed message on ECAM; the CA (Captain) just wrote up. I issued MEL 36 XXX left wing loop B fault without checking history. I thought the aircraft was on a thru flight since it was way late in the afternoon. After the aircraft departed; a ZZZ Crew Chief called maintenance and informed maintenance that the aircraft was in ZZZ all night with a Drop Dead MEL 36XXX C/N XXXXXX L/PXXXXXXX. This aircraft did not make one flight without new fault. NO NEW MEL should have been issued.I did not look at history. I thought the aircraft was on a Thru FLT. Maintenance did not say anything about history; which is was just sign-off. I was in a hurry to dispatch the aircraft. I did not take a Class 2 maintenance message as a serious fault. Wing Loops do fault very often.Always review history and do not get in a hurry. Ask the Mechanic to also review the log book.
I bought off Required Inspection Item (RII) steps on [work card]. Flight deck window EFB mod. The windows were removed from the aircraft and on a table in the hangar where the modification was accomplished. I did not recognize that this work was being accomplished on a [B737] MAX aircraft.
Crew Chief [at] ZZZ used a tool with expired calibration and altered calibration year to accomplish and close a Nose Landing Gear Shock Strut Fluid Check since the mechanics assigned could not accomplish the work due to expired calibration tooling. Crew Chief in ZZZ and this is the way he works. He goes to different airlines and borrow the tooling from [Company] with [Company] part number different from ours in the Aircraft Maintenance Manual. This is his way of working; also goes to [Company] to borrow calibrated tools.
Prior to schedule departure of Aircraft X; ZZZ Maintenance NAME while conducting his pre-departure checks discovered a hydraulic leak in the left wheelwell that was out of limits. Upon further investigation; it was isolated to the Normal Anti-Skid Module. ZZZ Maintenance contacted B757 Maintenance Control and a replacement Anti-Skid module was ordered to be shipped on recovery Aircraft Y to ZZZ. After landing Aircraft Y flight crew generated a discrepancy concerning an Elevator Asymmetry EICAS Alert (with history).  ZZZ Maintenance couldn't clear and no MEL relief was available for the fault. Additionally; on Aircraft Y post flight Maintenance discovered the Flap/Slat Control Valve leaking and out of limits in the wheelwell. Given only 1 Tech was on duty with 2 out of service aircraft; ZZZ Maintenance suggested that capping the Normal Anti-Skid Module (Aircraft X) and to MEL the Anti-Skid System to move the Aircraft. [Suggest] all parties involved to fully evaluate and determine proper course of action in a safe efficient manner.
My partner and I were assigned to install the IDG on Aircraft X; from the turnover on midnight shift. We proceeded to Bay 2; and attempted to install; and had some difficulties getting the IDG to mount to the gearbox. We had a crew chief come out and assist us with the installation; and after a bit; we moved the quad ring and got the IDG to mount. We then completed the installation; pushed the aircraft; and ran the engine twice. The first run was to verify the disconnect of the IDG worked; and the second time was to verify it was reset properly. There was a crew chief and another 2 AMT's doing the leak check; and no leaks were noted. The cowlings were closed; and we then taxied the aircraft to the gate. We did a post taxi walkaround; and saw no leaks and or fluid coming out of the engine. We were notified of engine oil loss during flight from the gearbox pad cover not being installed. At no time did we notice the pad cover off; nor were we told it was removed during the installation.
Working deferral; low IDG oil press ECAM advisory. We replaced the gcu; I don't remember the reason we came to the conclusion that was the problem. We checked the IDG oil service and the DPI with no faults found. I believe we ran the engine and found no faults; but not 100% sure. Better documentation of steps taken during troubleshooting.
Pilot write up of missing 2nd fire extinguisher not installed to aircraft first class bin for having the new interior mod. Contacted Maintenance Control Technician had given me an eco number of [X] for new mod should got a separate engineering authorization for extinguisher only.
Aircraft X was scheduled to have a THSA (Trimmable Horizontal Stabilizer Actuator) oil inspection complete which it failed due to a leak. The THSA was then replaced by 1st and 2nd shift on Date. After installation the THSA failed the operational checks. The aircraft was then turned over to 3rd shift. 3rd shift changed parts but the ops checks were still failing. The corrective action ended by stating no fix and that position transducer on the THSA was suspected to be faulty. The aircraft was then turned over to 1st shift on Date 1. 1st shift signed the non-routine off without addressing the no fix statement. The operational checks were also stamped in the job card as being completed by a mechanic and an inspector. I came in for my 3rd shift last night Date 1 and was curious what 1st shift did to fix the problem. I found that nothing was documented on the non-routine addressing the no fix statement. another mechanic went to the aircraft and went through the ops checks in the cockpit and the checks failed exactly as they did the night before. Management was notified and the aircraft was brought back to the hangar from the gate. I was informed that the mechanic and inspector would be asked about it but the aircraft was never removed from service.  Please have another mechanic and a different inspector run through the operational checks per the THSA replacement job card. the stab control wheel does not return to zero after being placed in 13.5 up position and sec 1 is reset. The THSA stops at .4 when .3 is the limit.
We went out to the aircraft and found the slide of the L1 door resting on the entry stand. We tried to push the slide back; but there was no way to re-secure the slide and we could not pin the slide. For safety purposes we were told to pull the stand away from the airplane and the slide then fully deployed.
We are currently in the process of returning X number of 737-MAX aircraft to service following the accomplishment of an EO. When auditing the paperwork on Aircraft Y; it was discovered that the tooling required to accomplish Step XX F.X; and F.Y was unavailable. This caused a retroactive audit of previously completed paperwork on Aircraft Z. It was determined that the tasks were stamped as accomplished in spite of the lack of available tooling. The aircraft was not in service at the time; however it was due to be released. The paperwork was pulled and the required tooling has been ordered to ensure correct accomplishment of these steps on both aircraft prior to aircraft release.The reference material uses generic three digit ATA codes (XX-XX-XX; XX-YY-XX) instead of complete ATA codes to identify applicable AMM references for a given task. Additionally; the maintenance tasks are all very similar when performed and easily confused. Furthermore the job card does not include the tooling in the bill of required materials; further obfuscating the tooling requirement. Finally; the tasks all have very similar nomenclature. You can be easily fooled into thinking you've accomplished more than one task when you have; in fact; only accomplished one; or part of another task. It is also worth noting that other similar task cards for this fleet type are significantly less vague. It appears that this card was created quickly with little mind paid to details. This is also the first time this job card has been accomplished at this station.Include the full ATA code for each task. Include the required tooling on the job card bill of materials. Add a note to Step XX  F.X and F.X indicating that tooling is required to complete these steps.
On Date Mechanic Name requested me to witness the removal and storage of the over wing slide bottle pins of the left and right wing slide bottles. The corrected action block of the non routine stated as such and that is what I witnessed and signed off as RII (Required Inspection Item).I saw nothing at the time directing the arming of the left and right over wing doors.I'm not sure why the disarming of the left and right over wing doors was written up on a non routine. There should be a Task Card for storing an aircraft and specific items called out to prepare the aircraft for storage; and to put the aircraft back into service.
XA:30 - Aircraft blocked in. XA:45 - commence aircraft arrival walk around. XA:55 - found #4 tire showing cord on shoulder and continued walk around. XB:05 - Went to cockpit and did routine check. Checked AMM (Aircraft Maintenance Manual) to get reference to OIL #4 tire. Read AMM 32-XX-XX-X and discussed with Maintenance Control. Found that there was no information saying that tire must be replaced before flight if first layer cord found on shoulder. Assumed that tire can be placed under OIL. XC:54 - aircraft departed. No Maintenance delay.Perhaps a bold statement on the AMM stating that Cord on shoulder not allowed and must be replaced before flight.
Aircraft came in with MEL for two wing stub fuel tank pumps running together and unable to isolate pumps from each other. Trouble shot problem down to the fuel pump selector switch in the cockpit overhead panel. Canned fuel selector switch panel from Aircraft X which is currently in heavy check. When part was canned there was no physical indication on the part; which was still installed on Aircraft X; that there was a discrepancy written up against part in [the] maintenance software. After installation in aircraft OPS CHECKED GOOD NO DEFECTS NOTED IAW EMB 145 AMM 28-XX-XX as documented on Maintenance Logbook page 47XXXXX ITEM XX.When performing [the] maintenance software search for any open discrepancy's against the fuel switch panel search results were negative. However upon installation of new fuel switch panel in Aircraft X it was discovered that there was an open discrepancy located in the task section of [the] Job Card; which is not displayed or indexed in [the] maintenance software search parameters. Without opening each individual Job Card item there is no way to search through the task descriptions section of the Job Card. Canned fuel switch panel had no physical indication that there was a discrepancy against it and panel was still installed on Aircraft X.Add in a function to search task descriptions in [the] maintenance software.
Aircraft X had a dual engine wash on the night of Date. Maintenance Technician 1 and I performed the run up after engine wash; followed Job Card XXX-XX-XX. Taxi aircraft onto taxiway for run up to 60%; 60% run was not done at the blast fence as paperwork doesn't specify location. At 60% run up and operation of packs system no smell/odor was detected in the flight deck or in the cabin. So we proceeded with the Job Card and finished the aircraft. Following day Aircraft X was taken out of service after a flight to ZZZ1 with crew report smell/odor in cabin. This was the first of 2 aircraft we had engine washes on that evening (both 800s); other aircraft Job Card complied with same was as we did Aircraft X- on taxiway same parameters met. The 'smell/odor' seems to be a common problem with the 800 as the Job Card does not state how long to actually run at 60% just to 'packs operate until the air that goes into the control cabin...no smell of the oil contamination'. The 700 has a different Job Card time requirement and seems to have less issues with 'smell/odor'. Cause of flight crew 'smell/odor' discovery may be out of Maintenance Technician's control as engines and packs have been run longer and at different altitudes/temperatures/parameters. Have the Job Card for the 700/800/MAX mirror each other so all aircraft and all technicians are performing job the same way to avoid  gate return/air returns/out of service aircraft.
I was sent out to [the] gate to remove panels for customs on Aircraft X; an A321 Airbus. I requested from lead mechanic for documentation on which panels and was told that there was none. When I arrived at the gate; a mechanic that was assigned to an aircraft in the gate next to [our] gate informed me that a Customs Agent had put a stand underneath the aircraft nose when it was extended during cargo unloading and the aircraft had settled onto the stand and was pulled out. When I asked the customs agents about the stand to question the agent about how hard it was to remove the stand to give me an idea of possible damage they said they didn't know. I believe they lied. I was asked by a Customs Agent to remove a panel in the forward cargo bay. When I went to get assistance and the log book to document the maintenance; the Customs Agent removed the panel himself. Non compliance with company section XX.XX and associated 14 CFRs. No coordination between corporate security and aircraft maintenance management. Corporate security notifies maintenance management of the need for mechanics to assist Customs. Maintenance management documents needed maintenance (panels removed ect.) Mechanics are assigned to monitor customs agents and accomplish required assist.
I was assigned a service check on Aircraft X while doing the check on the log book I had a inbound write up in the log book gasper vent above storage compartment forward side #3; 4 popped out [of] business class. The job was not a monitor and challenge item. While trying to gain access to the air outlet distribution valve I looked at the AMM and the instructions were not sufficient enough so I looked for some type of access so I opened the cover for the r2 escape slide inflation reservoir bottle and saw small access though that compartment while sticking my arm though the compartment the inflation reservoir bottle was deployed.
Left off email list from [Manufacturer's] EHM (Engine Health Monitoring) engine notification of potential EGT (Exhaust Gas Temperature gauge) error. The EGT thermocouple leads were found to be loose on all four probes causing erratic readings. No ready visibility on this modification. The desktop was acting up beyond being slow; multiple windows opening and some closing or moving resulting in very slow response with any usable information. The cause was found to be a screen saver disable function that had to be shut down by IT.
This event involved a Crew Rest Module (CRM) change from Aircraft X to Aircraft Y.  This is a common maintenance task that occurs when 767s are flown internationally. The process is controlled and documented by EO (Engineering Order) XXXXXX Part 1 CRM loaded ON aircraft and EO XXXXXXX Part 2 CRM removal. The EO affects the weight and balance and requires the BOW (Basic Operating Weight) to be changed before flight when the CRMs are installed or removed. The AMT is responsible for all maintenance actions. Once the changes are made he has to bring the paperwork to QC so that we can initiate the BOW change through [Flight Info]. [Flight Info] in turn contacts systems Engineering who makes the required BOW change in the computer weight and balance system. Once the BOW has been changed an e-mail is sent to [Flight Info] and QC (Quality Control) so that the paperwork can be stamped by QC indicating this step has been complied with. The paperwork is then returned to Maintenance and the EO and associated [Maintenance Release] can be signed off by the AMT.  Engineering often takes several hours to make these changes so the paperwork often gets stamped by an inspector who did not initiate the BOW. On this event the AMT brought the paperwork to QC at approx XA:50 am. I started the scanning procedure and e-mail notice was sent to [Flight Info] at XB:12. I received the confirmation notice from [Flight Info] at XB:23. I notified the other Inspectors in the office of the BOW change requirements and that the paperwork was my desk. At some point I was called out to another aircraft for an inspection that I thought would take extended time to comply with. I gave the EO work cards to another inspector on duty. After I returned from the Inspection; the time was close to XC:30 which is clock out time for QC day shift. Just before I left for the day a swing shift Inspector asked about the CRM change paperwork. I was somewhat surprised that it had not been completed at this point. The paperwork was still on the inspectors desk that I had given it to nearly 3 hours earlier. Swing shift came in to a very busy day with many inspections; and several complex jobs to take care of so I checked and saw that an e-mail had just been sent notifying that the BOW had been changed. I stayed and tried to help out by taking care of the BOW weight issue. The e-mail was sent at XC:27 that the BOW Change was completed. I thought the e-mail addressed the BOW change for both Aircraft X and Y. I stamped the paperwork for both aircraft and notified the AMT that he could pick up the paperwork in the QC office. The mistake in this event is that I did not read the e-mail closely enough to insure that the BOW change included both aircraft. The original e-mail I sent to [Flight Info] initiating the process included info for both Aircraft X and Y. So I thought the reply was for both Aircraft. If I had noticed this I would have only stamped the E.O. for Aircraft X and not Y. Although the BOW was changed in the computer before the aircraft departed for flight; the mistake could have resulted in an improper BOW listed for the weight and balance computation. I have to slow down; read and understand the e-mail notification. Also it would be nice if we could get timely updates from Systems Engineers on the BOW changes. This one took in excess of 5 hours.
This report is for a PW4000-4077 fan exit guide vane assembly. The fan cowl section was removed due to fan exit guide vane inner ring damage. The ring had a hole with multiple cracks emanating from it. Upon removal of the assembly and the disassembly of the vanes; it was discovered that the damage was caused by a broken guide vane attach pin/bolt. It was also revealed that all of the guide vane attach pin/bolts were severely worn.
On Aircraft X [a Boeing 737-900ER] I installed two serviceable Flight Control Computers (FCCs) and performed the Line Replacement Unit (LRU) replacement test in [the] Digital Flight Control System (DFCS) bite in accordance with the manual. While finding the correct software for the FCCs the mechanics ran a test on the elevator tab control.  The test failed step 5 resulting in the trim tabs split when pushing the control forward or aft instead of them going the same direction like the test calls out for. All breakers were in and no flight deck effect showed. I found out that the preloaded software was 737 MAX. As soon as I installed the correct software the tabs worked correctly in accordance with the test. My concern is that if someone misses loading the software like the manual tells them to do that there might be a safety of flight issue that could result in loss of life. I know its not supposed to happen because the manual tells you to check it but in a high pressure situation or with low experience it could and I don't want to see something like that happen.
We are currently assigned to the tire shop in ZZZ by bid.  We were instructed by previous tire shop techs of the current procedures and practices.  We questioned a few of the issues of different part numbers and CMM (Component Maintenance Manual).  We were told to follow the work card and that they have already addressed the procedures with engineering and all was okay.  We then; to this day; were building both wheel assemblies as status quo.  We continued down that path calling other company for build numbers; built and shipped wheels according to their directions. We received wheels on DATE. After reviewing accompanying paper work noticed the amount of work that was performed on one of the wheel assemblies and the references.  [It was] noticed the CMM reference on paperwork was different to the reference on the work card that we follow.  Work card only calls out for CMM XX-XX-XX. We tried looking up the references for XX-XX-XY in the CMM. Unable to find reference we reached out to engineering for assistance. Proceeded to ask if we could get an ECRA (Engineering Change Request Authorization) or if work card could be modified to reflect both CMM references.  We were advised by engineering to send wheels with certain part number X back to the vendor for service. As soon as we received engineering response we immediately went to the aircraft assigned to ZZZ and physically checked for wheels that were built by X tire shop with specific MFR part number and had them replaced.  All wheels have been removed from our ZZZ fleet and serviceable ready line and will be sent back to vendor for overhaul.
I completed my service check with all tires at normal press. at around XA00.  Sometime around XA42 when the aircraft was released; The Pilot thought the #1 MLG tire press. looked low. upon checking the tire press. It was found to be 8 PSI below normal at 217 PSI. The corrective measure is to re-inflate and check in 24 hours. The aircraft departed late because of this incident. This seems to be a common occurrence with the 737 MAX aircraft; on regular basis often requiring replacement of the tire and sometimes the opposite tire.
During the track and balance of A/C S/N XXXX; there were issues getting the blades to fly together; blade swapping took place as well as blade replacements.  I was doing the paperwork portion and trusted that the information given to me was correct.  When I was told which S/N's were swapped and which were replaced.  Logbook entries were made and signed off reflecting those actions.  Fast forward a few weeks I was sent an RO (Repair Order) to get unserviceable blades sent out for repair.  I printed out the RO's placed them in the blade boxes and got the blades sent out.  Nowhere in this process did I physically check the S/N's of the blades.  I trusted the mechanics to give me the correct information which was a huge mistake and I should have physically verified the P/N's and S/N's as outlined in our procedures.  This is the end of my statement.Do not rely on others to verify P/N's S/N's. Physically Verify P/N's and S/N's. Double-check other mechanic work to ensure completeness and that what was said was done was actually done. Follow published guidance; policies; and procedures.
On DATE; Time; the Internal Baggage Door was placed on MEL by a different Controller. In the morning of DATE1 I unassigned this MEL; techs could not complete this MEL and Ops needed aircraft for a flight the next day. I didn't review the MEL 52-11 and assumed it was a good MEL and removed it from the work order to be troubleshot at a later date. The aircraft flew during the day of DATE 1 and landed in ZZZ to be worked for maintenance. Tonight; on DATE 1 this MEL was back in a work order to be worked again; I was researching parts and reviewing the MEL when I noticed that 52-11 excludes the internal baggage door and that there is no relief. I immediately notified the Duty Manager NAME and grounded the aircraft. MEL 52-11 Internal baggage door does not close properly. It slides open occasionally.Review MEL's in Work Orders before unassigned them.
Aircraft X was scheduled for departure. But flight crew reported a maintenance message 'NLG UP SOL' prior to departure. While trouble shooting this message; The AMM (Aircraft Maintenance Manual) tells you to cycle the gear handle to clear the message. We decided due to A/C fully loaded with passengers on board it would be best to place this item on MEL.While searching MEL REF # 32-31-X we also encounter the same situation. Mel # 32-31-X procedure is to follow AMM 32-31-XX. Under this procedure you have to verify which system is at fault. This procedure has you to cycle the gear handle. Due to this task; we had to get all passengers to deplane. The problem we encountered; No where in the AMM; GMM; or any manual were we able to find a procedure that allowed the gear handle to be cycled while passengers onboard. We were also asked by a supervisor if we can cycle the gear handle even though passengers were onboard. This supervisor was very persuasive and pushed the technicians to cycle the gear handle. We stood our ground and refused to cycle the gear handle while passengers on board.We have to address this MEL and update our manuals and procedures when we have passengers onboard. It is very critical that we have this in writing. Cycling the gear handle while passengers onboard only increases the risk of injuries.
I was assigned a Task Card on Aircraft X; this is an expiration date check of the lower lobe. While checking the date of manufacture of the squibs I noticed all 5 cargo fire extinguisher bottles hydrostatic tests were expired in 2018. The hydrostatic test due dates are not part of the card's criteria. I referenced [the procedure manual] to check the procedure for an expired hydrostatic test. According to the [manual] the bottle must be removed 3 months prior to expiration. Apparently Company has lost track of the hydrostatic testing of the 777 fire bottles; if not the entire fleet.
The spar bumper; in the main wheel well; on the left side of Aircraft X fell off while the aircraft was in the hangar. The aircraft was delivered from the factory 2 years ago and this part was installed incorrectly. Textron considers this a grounding discrepancy because of the chance that the landing gear could hit the main spar in the event of a gear up landing. Other aircraft need to be looked at for proper factory installation.
The flight crew was concerned about an deferral used for a flight deck door peep hole. [Maintenance] was notified and determined that the flight deck door peep hole can not be placed on MEL or NEF. [Maintenance] created an [work order] to repair the door.
Aircraft X called while in flight. He had a momentary fire warning light for the aft cargo pit. I advised him to follow the QRH and he subsequently diverted to ZZZ. NOTE: The B fire protection system was currently on MEL so the current fault was on the A side. He also told me that the discharge light was on which seemed odd to me because he didn't activate. Once the aircraft landed in ZZZ; I had contract maintenance pull and reset CB per maintenance notes in MEL XX-XX-C; which is what I used to get the airplane out of ZZZ. I missed step D of the MEL which should have had me INOP BOTH the forward and aft pits because one of the bottles is used. I thought because we still had a good bottle; I could dispatch with the aft pit empty. It appears that I should have used MEL XX-XX-B and deferred BOTH forward and aft pits. I found this MEL to be very confusing. XX-XX-C. The system has two fire bottles.
While signing off work steps on the electronic device Maintenance application; electronic sign-off allows the technician to N/A the step even when not allowed per GMM.  E/A XXXX-XXXXX does not allow for N/A to be used. therefore the option shouldn't be allowed in the maintenance application.
Removed and reinstalled aft left emergency exit hatch per AMM (Aircraft Maintenance Manual). No fault of being open on ground on ECAM (Electronic Centralized Aircraft Monitor). While climbing at 9;000 feet amber fault notification appeared on ECAM. Flight crew had a precautionary landing and it was troubleshot by day shift and released for service. Flown to ZZZ with no faults. The fault came back a second time and final repair appears to have been the inner seal of exit hatch. Lack of attention to detail of inner seal. Printed AMM did not have the photo figures to go with it. Inspected inner seal from interior with inspection mirror and noted ECAM had no amber faults. In my eyes and coworker being my monitor and challenge; this hatch was fully secure.More attention to minor details and printing photo figures with each and every aircraft manual. Learn from this experience moving forward and make sure something like this doesn't happen again in the future.
While operating Aircraft X ZZZ-ZZZ1; the flight crew noted a fuel imbalance message on the FQIS (Fuel Quantity Indicating System) display. A snapshot was recorded; and 0.0 readings were noted at L/H tank probes #14 and #16. Later; the R/H tank #10 position and L/H tank #12 position reported 0.0; as well. 777/787 Maintenance Control Technician then AOG'd probes to ZZZ1 to repair system prior to flight. Overnight; at some point; Engineering became involved and issued an EA (Engineering Authority) stating a specific MEL to use (which they do not have the authority to do) that was incorrect and bypassed the usage of the correct MEL; which limits the flight to 50 nm of land.Engineering must not be allowed to specify MEL usage in EAs. They do not have the authority nor knowledge to do so. Engineering must not be allowed to circumvent MEL usage causing a safety of flight or Out of Compliance issue.The correct MEL application is MEL 28-XX-Y; which limits the aircraft to within 50 nm of land. This created a major Non-Compliance and Safety of Flight issue.
Aircraft X scheduled for flight to ZZZ at gate X in LAX. The potable water service access panel was on monitor for broken latches. I was assigned to accomplish the monitor to re-tape after water servicing. FAA inspector who was present at the time asked me for a reference to perform the job. I pointed out the number on the monitor sign off work card.  I also tried many times to open it on my iPad tablet before starting the job but was not I successful because of the poor signal at the gate. Didn't have at hand the paper copy reference before starting to perform the re-taping of the access panel when the inspector questioned me about the reference. I called the crew chief office and asked for reference to be printed and sent to me to the gate X because the tablet was working and not reliable because of the poor signal. [Suggestions are to] make sure to have the required paper work or reference on hand before starting the task. Supervisors and crew chiefs have to make all necessary references available as we all have to help each other on to make the terminal operation smooth. The tablet given must be reliable and effective to perform ones task. Trying to make the flight on time can sometimes takes your attention. I could have driven to the office and print the required papers.
It was brought to my attention on date at XX:49 that on DATE1; I failed to reinstall panels on Aircraft X. On DATE1; I removed panels A; B; and C in preparation for inspector Name inspection of the actuating mechanism on the right wing flap of Aircraft X. upon completion of Name's inspection; I raised the flaps to facilitate the installation of panels D; E; and F. Upon completion of the installation of these panels I thought I return to the flap actuating mechanism panels to reinstalled them; however it is apparent that I failed to accomplish this task; thus failing to follow the job card procedure to reinstall the panels.Airplane was rolling with 10 degree flaps and was experiencing issues. They stop the aircraft to investigate; extended flap to 45 and found the three actuating mechanism panels missing.
When the fuel stick calculator was first approved for MD11; I had an aircraft that was not on a level ramp (roll attitude) with a number 3 fuel quantity on deferral. I used the online fuel stick calculator to try and verify the fuel quantity in the #3 tank. The numbers were off significantly. I used the maintenance manual procedure to correctly measure the quantity and it matched the known quantity. Afterwards I did more research and found that the web based fuel stick calculator to be inaccurate with the RH wing tanks of all fleets if the ramp isn't level. The problem stems from the fact that there is only one selection for wing tanks and that selection includes both left and right tanks. The calculator gives the same quantity for left and right tanks regardless of the roll selected. I had sent emails to the website contact and the Director of Maintenance office. Periodically throughout the last 6 years I have been sending emails to the office and discussed with my managers trying to get this corrected. About 6 months ago there was a read and sign about the importance of doing accurately sticking the tanks. This prompted me notifying the Maintenance office about the problems with the calculator again. I checked today and it still hasn't been corrected. I haven't heard back and I'm out of ideas to get this resolved. I believe the FAA would be very concerned if they were aware. Correct the calculator by making each tank a separate entry with its own table of quantities instead of combining left and right wings.
Aircraft upon arrival at ZZZ for scheduled A check. Found the crew O2 bottle shut off valve safety wired backwards. Safety wire as installed; would not resist the valve from turning towards the closed position.
On Date Aircraft X [Company] Rev 00 deferral per MEL 25-XX-XX was put in place for the two forward life-rafts removed (due overhaul) while parked at ZZZ; the 3rd life raft remained installed. Due to the remote location of the aircraft vs home base; the flight crews physically performed the life raft removal and transport to the service facility absent of direct maintenance personnel; acting as the Maintenance Director designee as requested; instead of talking the crew through performing the deferral per our operations manual I performed the electronic paperwork side of the process without verifying that an INOP placard was applied to the empty cabinets by the crew. The lack of proper [Company] MEL placarding wasn't discovered until after an event revealed the lack of placarding several weeks later after Aircraft X flew more than 50 miles from shore.Recommend adding routine discrepancy/MEL training for all [Company] personnel to build comfort with deferral writing and operating manual procedures in place; in this case; specifically as it applies to responsibilities for corrective/deferred actions. We could also emphasize how important it is for flight crews to monitor the deferral list prior to every departure and be free to ask questions about discrepancy questions to our Maintenance Director. I will also ask for a picture of the in place placard for the next deferral opportunity.
I was on the right seat of Aircraft X when we trying to do a Dry Motor using procedure XX-XX-XX-XXX-XXX-4-A after dry motor a tail exhaust fire.
I have been finding a considerable amount of IDGs (Integrated Drive Generators) with low oil qty on the engines. No oil visible in the sight glass. Please see attached pictures of various aircraft. No leaks have been noticed after accomplishing a 5 minute idle run; so; I am not sure what is going on. We need to be serviced or checking the IDGs more often.
The B737 MAX 9 has a chronic problem with tire pressures dropping considerably and I have found brake brackets cracked. This is just one aircraft. This needs to be looked at ASAP.
We work fuel nozzles on #1 engine through multiple shifts and as the new ones were laid out on table I accidentally grabbed the wrong one.  We had a fellow employee filling out the tag so it could have been caught there but again was missed.  I then was put on fuel nozzles again the following Wednesday and I realized I forgot about enrichment nozzles last aircraft.  Did some research and realized I had messed up.  Called maintenance control and talked to a lead and aircraft is being pulled from service to be checked and repaired.
This happened in an overnight at ZZZ on Aircraft X during a borescope inspection on #2 ENG where second shift began the job card and removed the borescope ports. Technician Y and I came in on 3rd shift and after inspections cleared the engine heat level to borescope it around XA00 on DATE 2; we finished the borescope inspection. We installed all the borescope and igniters which we found bagged and tagged which made it easy to see; but we missed 1 that wasn't bagged and easy to see nearly eye level because it wasn't bagged or tagged.The event occurred because we ourselves did not remove the plugs. We made the mistake of paying attention to the ports that were bagged and removed and failed to verify exactly what ports were removed by the previous shift. The missing plug was nearly eye level @ the 10 O'clock position; but since it was not clearly bagged or tagged we failed to install it. I was unfamiliar with the Job Card and made the mistake of assuming only the bagged hardware was removed.I think the best suggestion I can make would be to put in Job Card to attach streamers that could be easily seen on the hardware or near the plug holes while doing the borescope inspection. Had we seen the hardware or plug hole clearly bagged or streamed this would have never happened. I also think that a better overlap between shifts would also have never allowed something like this to happen. If we had a better overlap between shifts at the aircraft things like this would be greatly reduced.
Fan blower avionics vent 20HQ wiring and associated connector burnt. Connectors 358QF14 and 183QF14 were found burnt along with wiring between said connectors and blower fan control relay 8HQ. Spattered metal and soot found throughout contactor box 107VU126. This is my second aircraft to find this type of damage in the past 2-3 months. I believe this is occurring due to poor manufacture design of vent fan control system. Redesign of system.
Aircraft returned from [a] training flight and reported a loss of elevator control. Upon inspection of the horizontal stabilizer control system; a broken cable was found. The lower stabilator control cable was found broken at the stainless steel threaded cable end along the run between the balance weight tube and the turnbuckle in the aft fuselage. Further inspection of the break found corrosion around the stainless steel end of the cable and on the turnbuckle itself. The cable break occurred in an area that is inspect-able; but was missed on 100hr inspection. Aircraft was in compliance with AD 2013-02-13 but the inspection was performed 6 years prior to this incident.
ZZZ Line Maintenance CFM56-7B Fan Blade Replacement Due To Damage. AMT sent from ZZZ1 to accomplish because no one in Station Qualified to do Repair Task. A RII Qualification Requirement 'Note' was found after Accomplishing CBT (Computer Based Training) for general knowledge on DATE prior to Aircraft X Fan Blade Vibe Repair. After some research 'Note' was also Found in AMM Fan Blade Removal (Complete Set). However Job Card Being Used for both Aircraft with General Information also not having any 'Note' for RII Qualification Requirements.RII Item First and Second Stage Fan Blades Only Requires RII For Install. There aren't any 'Notes' called out for Qualification Requirements for the CFM56-7B RII First Stage Fan Blades Install. There aren't any RII Qualification Requirements for the CFM56-7B in GPM. There aren't any RII Qualification 'Notes' in Job Card. There aren't any 'Notes' in any Fan Blade Install AMM Tasks where they should be if there is a real Qualification Requirement.Send all Inspectors to formal classroom training. Have it show up in LMS (Line Maintenance Station) Qualification Report. Apply 'Note' to all Locations of the GPM and AMM where needed. That being said the RII Policies don't exist for Removal Procedures.
Released aircraft for service with exceeded life limited structural major repair of the R/H aft wing attach fitting that was previously installed. The repair was unknown at the time because no record of it was entered in the aircraft maintenance logs nor was there a form 337 filed with the FAA. It wasn't until after the aircraft had been in operation for one season that a engineering order for the repair was discovered at the previous owners location during a records search. The engineering order placed a life limit of 500 cycles or 1 year whichever occurs sooner on the repair with 100HR recurring visual inspections in the interim. Since its discovery the repair has been evaluated with a damage tolerance assessment by a Structural Designated Engineering Representative and incorporated into our structural inspection program. FAR 91.417 states that any life limited item or item requiring recurring inspection shall be recorded in the aircraft maintenance records and 91.419 requires that owner operator who sells an aircraft to transfer the permanent aircraft records to the purchaser at the time of sale. I believe the failure to follow these rules by the previous owner/operator led to the problem we have today. Moving forward documenting maintenance in accordance with FAR 91.419(a) in the permanent records such as the maintenance log books and submitting a form 337 would appropriately mitigate this problem.
While working interior mod; the work card to install galley were vague.  The instructions were to install brackets if removed and brackets where not removed; so I N/Aed the step. The FAA found this and made me write an explanation as to why.
Aircraft upon arrival at  ZZZ for scheduled A check. Found the crew O2 bottle shut off valve safety wired backwards. Safety wire as installed; would not resist the valve from turning towards the closed position.
On Aircraft X; maintenance in ZZZ hanger found an oil filter missing from L/H engine during 'A' check. Soon after I was notified that it was my signature on the previous paperwork for in shop maintenance before the engine was installed on Aircraft X. Having the paperwork for the oil filter been dated for DATE; the engine installed on DATE1; and this being found on DATE2 it is very hard for me to recall weather or not I did this very specific engine oil filter. During that time I do recall us doing a lot of engine work back to back usually having 2 engines being worked on in the shop at the same time; training in a new guy and at times hopping back and fourth from them. Looking back at PMI part orders for the engine oil filter 2 of significance came up; one being for a W/O (Work Order) on DATE3 which I typically always use while working in the engine shop because it's easier to remember that than a new/different W/O number every time; also I will typically compile a big list with parts for an engine and any other component work orders that I have been working on to save time from going to the computer every 10-20 min with new parts. I also backtracked a fuel filter kit being picked on the same day (DATE3) because I will typically do those filters together; while it had my usual 37340 w/o number the issue number was separately picked. I usually wouldn't think much about that but something to note was that during those months we we're training in a new guy on day shift and according to the w/o for the engine he was working on the engine with me so that could of defiantly played a part in it getting missed by me or forgotten by him. This guy on many occasions; especially when he first started; would say that he completed something yet later on we would find out that he didn't; I can't speak for why people would give a definite answer when they aren't sure themselves; which is why I can't give a definite answer for if I signed that I did the filter or if I signed for someone else doing it. The other one was for a W/O on DATE4 for an engine assembly that wasn't that engine. I have found out that parts room does not save the sheet for who made and signed out the issued parts order because the filter was ordered to the engine shop work order and not a specific aircraft or engine W/O. It is because of that; working and training on the engine with a new guy; the extensive amount of time it has been sitting around the hanger for anyone to touch and also having an inexperienced contract maintenance team installing the engine for either their first or second time ever; that at this time I can not confirm or deny that I was the one who forgot or misplaced the filter. But mechanics in ZZZ said it happened and my name was on the line.For part pick lists; they should probably be saving all of the pick list orders (i.e.; who made it and who signed it out) in the future so that one can identify if they picked the part. On the flip side of that I probably should of been using the w/o for that specific engine. Having specific trainers or having it more known that if your training someone you should just focus on that and not try and do other work while half training someone.
THSA (Trimmable Horizontal Stabilizer Assembly) Master Spline threaded bushing    (G1) was found missing safety wire during unrelated THSA general visual inspection. See AMM 27-44-00-710-001-A for safety wire installation requirements and Figure 27-44-00-991-00300-A test procedure of jamming simulation tool: Sheet 1. See log page XXXXXXX. This safety wire is removed and installed during THSA jamming tests; usually scheduled with some A checks. There is an  inspection of the installed safety wire on the task card.
Aircraft upon arrival at ZZZ for scheduled XX check. Found the crew O2 bottle shut off valve safety wired backwards. Safety wire as installed; would not resist the valve from turning towards the closed position. Make installation of safety wire and valve position an inspection requirement anytime crew O2 bottle valve knob is disturbed.
Aircraft X came in with a write up for the #1 Integrated Drive Generator system (IDG) erratic temperature fluctuations. NAME was sent out to the aircraft. When he got to the aircraft he pulled the post flight report and noticed that the APU generator had also had a failure during the last flight leg. Having two faulty generators prevented the MEL from being able to be applied. My recommendation to the management was to change the #1 IDG because of the history; parts previously changed; and the post flight flagging. My supervisor NAME1 was told by his boss that the hangar was too busy to accommodate and pressured him to troubleshoot the APU further. An avionics tech who was previously on the aircraft was sent out to troubleshoot the A/C. Parts had been ordered to troubleshoot the issue with the APU; and the IDG. NAME3 was the avionics tech assigned. He performed an ops-check of the generator that was good. And as a precaution changed the GAPCU (Ground and Auxiliary Power Control Unit). It was expressed multiple times that this aircraft really needed an IDG; and APU generator. The #2 IDG did require servicing as well. I believe this aircraft was handled the way it was because of pressure from management to get the aircraft out. I did some research on the history of the rest of the aircraft later that day [and] found that the aircraft had had prior issues with the batteries and the RAT (Ram Air Turbine). With the history of electrical generation issues on this aircraft I believe this was a near miss. The aircraft was dispatched with a #1 IDG on MEL and an unconfirmed repair to the APU; leaving the aircraft with one operable generator; that needed servicing. The emergency electrical generation issues with the battery and the RAT are even more reason for concern. The result of this event was [a priority] landing. The aircraft was routed to go to ZZZZ and on climb out lost the APU generator. The aircraft then returned to field. Flight time was approximately 30 minutes. I was informed that it was [a priority] landing by my supervisor NAME1. To my knowledge there was never any maintenance log write up for [a priority] landing or an overweight landing. The next day I spoke with the Chief pilot notifying him of the incident. I was called up to the manager's office later that day. NAME2 berated me for going to the chief pilot before contacting him for this issue. I explained to NAME2 that I was not trying to hide anything from him. That day I didn't have the time to come in early and speak to him about this issue. The chief pilot's office happens to be less than 100 feet from where my overtime shift was that morning. I explained to NAME2 why I felt this was unethical to allow the aircraft to fly in this condition. NAME2 became irate that I said 'I felt this was unethical'. He said not to use the word 'unethical' when it came to this repair as the [manual] said it was good. I explained that having repaired the APU generator with an 'ops check' is not a confirmed repair and having sent it out with a #1 IDG on MEL was dangerous. That is all in addition to the previous history of electrical problems this aircraft had prior.This is just another example of how the company tries to use the maintenance manuals and company manuals to cut corners in maintenance. Common sense and general safety would say not to dispatch the aircraft without a confirmed repair to one of the two generators. This behavior seems to be more and more common in a place where the punitive management culture pushes its front-line supervision for on time departure over safety.
After completing work on an interior log item on Aircraft X; I checked the flight deck to make sure the battery was off. I found the battery on and switched it to off not realizing the APU was running at the time. I then called my Lead to make sure it was OK to leave the battery off; but he told me the plane was leaving soon and to leave the battery on. I put the battery back on; then immediately left the aircraft and returned to the ready room and told my Lead I was off the aircraft. A few minutes later we got word that there was a fire in the tail area of aircraft X.
While taxiing back from engine runs; brakes failed. Emergency brake was used to stop aircraft. Root cause was the PWR Brake System CB popped/disengaged. Vendor had the aircraft out on the taxiway for Engine 5 point-capped runs due to RH engine change. When returning to the company hangar in ZZZ; they were following Operations. While getting ready to turn off the taxiway; the low brake pressure annunciator light came on. The Technician checked the brakes and found no brakes were present. They then turned the aircraft back to the taxi with Operations and slowly stopped the aircraft with the emergency brake. No aircraft damage; no one hurt; and stopped a slow rate using the TR (Thrust Reverser) system to not flat-spot the tires with a sudden stop.Operations went to the aircraft and stopped aircraft movement until Vendor got the tug on site and pulled the aircraft to the hangar. Once inside the hangar; the nose area was inspected due to the statements that there was fluid coming out of the nose area. After reviewing; it was the fluid in the lines that was blown out when the emergency brake was pulled and was coming out of the drain only. Inspected the LH and RH gear; no leaks were noted. Opened the MCD (Mode Control Display) and noticed the PWR BRKS CB was not engaged and the anti-skid was in the off position. Technician did not know the CB was popped.
Aircraft X came in to ZZZ for overnight maintenance. A work package was created and Maintenance performed the work on the Company Form. I received a turnover to comply with leak checks for both engines to complete the A-Check which was on the work package from the previous night. After completing the leak checks I was asked by my Supervisor on duty to sign off the Airworthiness Release. I reviewed the Company Form and the AML for completion and double check both before actually signing the AR (Airworthiness Release) for Aircraft X on DATE. I signed the AR based off my knowledge for completion of the Company Form and AML. I was spoken to 2 days after the event took place. PS: the plane flew 6 legs before the Air Return occurred.Rushing to get the AC out on time.I spoke with both my Operational and Base Manager on the events that took place that day. They agreed with me that I'm not at fault for this situation base on my information.We need a better turnover process and communication. Also; we need to slow down while complying with the paperwork with Maintenance Procedures.
During Crew O2 bottle shut off valve safety wire inspection; it was noted that the Crew O2 bottle service port cap was loose and not seated/sealing. The security of the cap (tight/ sealed) is an aircraft safety item. If the service port (internal) check valve fails; the only remaining protection to stop 100 percent oxygen (tank) from discharging into the aircraft is the service port cap!!! A non-seated/ sealed cap (like this occurrence) would have the same end effect; as not having a cap installed at all.There is no CDL relief for a missing cap (no-go item with a missing cap). 100% oxygen discharge into cabin could be an extreme fire/ explosive hazard under some circumstances. Additionally; if the Crew O2 bottle inadvertently discharges during flight; there will not be oxygen available for the flight crew to perform their duties during event. Another scenario is with an oxygen tank low pressure/ no pressure condition; could cause the Flight Crew to divert the flight.Recommend:1) Maintenance Training2) Maintenance Bulletin3) Technician Crew Briefing Item
Avionics Technician Y; [and I]; were sent to ZZZ to work Aircraft X. Midnight Shift had written up the emergency lights inoperative at seat row 22ABC to 26ABC. When we arrived; we powered up the aircraft and turned on the emergency lights. Technician Y noticed that first class emergency lights were also inoperative and the aft cabin emergency lights were inoperative from row 32ABC to the aft cabin. At the same time I noticed the seat row 20ABC and 21ABC red emergency light lens were broken. The representative from ZZZ was right next to me. He found one of the lens; but it was broken in two pieces and unusable. I initiated log items to document what we found. Technician Y was troubleshooting the aft cabin as I documented the defects. all of a sudden; Technician Y's phone rings and over the speaker says we just arrived and we must return back to ZZZ because we are writing too many things up. Maintenance Control spoke to us on the vendors phone and told us the same thing. This is outrageous that we should be punished for doing our job. Had we looked the other way it would have be OK and we would have gotten the overtime required to finish the log item written up by Midnight Shift. Later; Technician Y called Maintenance Control and now he denied that we were being sent home for the write ups; but said ZZZ was not a maintenance station where we change parts. That is what he said. You can speak with Technician Y. This is harassment and punishment for doing our job.
Aircraft X was a RFD (Required Fleet Directive) under Vendor Maintenance. During the visit the nose tires were replaced. Two 737 MAX tires were installed on a 737 NG aircraft. When the aircraft landed in ZZZ; it was discovered the incorrect tires were installed. ZZZ techs replaced the tires. Currently a team is working with our QA team who is having the investigation with Vendor [Maintenance].
Aircraft X was in ZZZ for an RON (Remain Over Night). One of the cards assigned in the Bill of Work was Integrity Check Trimmable Horizontal Stabilizer Actuator (THSA) Ball Screw Shaft. During the inspection there were findings written up on Forms XXXXXX. Two of the items written up were 'Both THS actuator motors require replacement due to out of limit leaks'; and 'THSA lower claw stop rubber is deteriorated'. Both items were signed off by a supervisor; the leak as within limits; and the claw stop as 'cleaned rubber of discoloration; OK for service'. After these items were found to be signed off; they were written up again and repaired before the aircraft was returned to service.Signing off items by certain management individuals seems like it's becoming more commonplace; there is a lot of pressure that comes down from local upper management to the supervisors; to the point that it seems like it could be intimidation; the pressure then in turn comes down onto the crew chiefs and crew members. I have been in this station for a year now; and the pressure that I've seen come down on the crew members is dangerous; and can lead to larger problems. I feel that these items being signed off are in response to pressure from upper management due to extended out of service times.I feel that this has been going on for a long time; and will continue to happen unless there is outside influence to put an end to this.
During my walk around; I noticed some oil on the outboard thrust reverser. I opened the IDG service panel and noticed that the #1 Engine IDG oil level was not visible through the sight glass. I serviced the IDG and accomplished a 5 min idle run. No leaks were noted.While accomplishing the ETOPS PDSC (Pre-Departure Service Check); I noticed that the #1 Engine has oil stain on the outboard thrust reverser. I opened up the IDG service panel and noticed that the IDG had no oil quantity visible in the sight glass.. I serviced the IDG and accomplished a 5 min. Idle run. No leaks were noted. I added 2 qts.
Aircraft X air return for Engine 2 issue. [Aircraft] had IDG checks on both engines. Had engine cowls open; no faults noted at time.
Aircraft X arrived at the gate with the APU duct pressure seal clamp not installed. The aircraft was taken out of service. This job takes approximately 4 hours to correct if you have no other issues. There have been several other aircraft with the same issue.
On Date Aircraft X was departing ZZZ and the aircraft had a Gear Disagree and Door Disagree Amber Lights. The aircraft did an air return. When the aircraft landed it was determined the #2 Brake MLG (Main Landing Gear) Rod was not attached. This #2 MLG Brake was replaced in ZZZ1 on Date 1.
Incident on ZZZ road trip. I was called to go on a road trip to ZZZ for an engine change on Aircraft X. Prior to being called there were three other AMTs and one inspector in ZZZ. They had evaluated the damage to the engine and performed a borescope. The results from the borescope were good. But there was substantial damage to the engine inlet. After arriving in ZZZ seeing the damage first hand I recommended to the Maintenance Manager that we perform an engine change. All the proper equipment was there already. We had enough AMTs to perform the change. Manager wanted us to perform a high power assurance run. All the mechanics and myself were very uncomfortable with that as we thought it to be a safety concern because of the heavy damage to the engine. Manager told me that we needed to complete the task. My mechanics all voiced concern again with the safety aspect of this task; and they had refused to run the aircraft. The Manager sent an email stating that we must take the engine to power to verify if [it] would be eligible for a maintenance ferry flight. Against my will and better judgement; I decided as the Crew Chief that I would assume the responsibility and run the aircraft myself. We first performed a dry motor and idle run. Both times it was very noticeable that the engine was slow to spool. The idle run start time was very extended. The ambient temperature was in the 40's. It was also noticeable that the engine didn't sound right. We could hear a higher pitched whine and a deep groan coming from the engine. I ran it up to flight climb detent per the job card. As soon as the engine accelerated above ground idle you could feel a noticeable shaking. The engine also had high vibrations showing on ECAM; we were seeing an N2 vibe around .8 and an N1 vibe around 3.2 and you could physically feel it vibrating. However the engine did make power; it accelerated what felt to me to be slowly but was able to accelerate to about 1.3 EPR. Aside of the slow spool; noises; and vibration everything seemed to be consistent with the level of damage sustained to the aircraft. The Manager decided to push for the maintenance ferry flight. We worked with the Manager and engineering for hours as they prepared the ferry flight.After it was approved I completed all necessary paperwork with the Manager. The next day the crew arrived. The crew had no knowledge of the events leading up to this ferry. [It was understood] that the crew would be briefed. I directly briefed both the Captain and co-pilot. I first only briefed the co-pilot on the damage and condition of the aircraft. He was made aware that the aircraft had been inspected and we found it to be safe for a maintenance ferry. I explained the damage that the engine had sustained from the bird strike and that we had run the engine and it was able to make power. I also explained that the engine had been bore scoped and there were no findings. I explained to him what we experienced on the power assurance test. The co-pilot was the one performing the preflight walk around. He was concerned with the safety and approached the Captain. Later on I explained to the Captain the same thing that I had explained to the First Officer. The crew made the decision to reject the aircraft based on the safety of the aircraft. Also all X [other] personnel were assigned to fly with the aircraft home as observers. We were instructed to put all of our tools in the forward cargo prior to the flight.The crew ultimately decided to reject the aircraft. The Captain was on the aircraft when he rejected the aircraft. Within a few minutes the Manager called and berated me about scaring off the crew. He basically yelled at me saying I caused them to reject the flight. We were then removed from the road trip and sent home on the next available commercial flight. A check flight crew was sent in and a day later the aircraft ferried with only the crew on board to ZZZ1 for repairs. I fully believe that we were forcedoff of the trip in an effort to silence us from telling the flight crews of the damage that the aircraft had sustained. I was called in to have a meeting with the Manager when I returned to ZZZ1 at the end of my shift. They were questioning what I had discussed with the flight crew. I had the intention of filing a report during the shift but we were so busy changing the engine on Aircraft X I didn't have the time. Name demanded a written statement and quoted the contract language as the reason. I stated that I had intended to file a report and had not yet had the time; and that the report prevented any statement from being written. Name immediately said are you refusing my request; in an obvious try at insubordination. I told him the report protected me from that. Name said that's not how the report works; and continued to force me into writing a statement. We broke from the meeting for clarification from the union and the report coordinator. Name continued to force my hand into a statement by telling my shop steward that since he requested it before the report was filed I was not protected and must write a statement in a reasonable time. I had about 45 minutes until [the] end of shift and I still needed to complete my turnover to night shift. This report comes on the heels of another disregard to safety from management at the company a few weeks prior that I had submitted. I fully believe that management is trying to attack me for presenting these safety situations to the FAA. I also had every intent on filing this safety report before speaking with management.I would also like to say that everyone who had interaction with Maintenance/ Engineering/ and or the Manager on this road trip expressed the concern and safety issues that we were being forced to overlook. Every mechanic; inspector; crew chief; and flight crew member felt like this should be an engine change. We expressed it to the powers above us. They didn't care and completely ignored us; even more they silenced us by sending us away and getting a new flight crew who presumably also knew nothing of the condition of the aircraft.
ZZZ requested Engineering Authorization (EA) for damage to APU fuel line. Fuel line [was] not available in stock company wide or Boeing. EA XXXXXX issued for deferral till no later than Date. Aircraft left ZZZ without documentation of any work accomplished in ATA 28 or ATA 49. Maintenance Control contacted ZZZ Supervisor Name and advised him of documentation requirements. Name assured us that the monitor in question will be generated; but was waiting on manpower.No documentation of work [was] accomplished or deferred. Program shows no items in ATA 28 for last 30 days. Have Maintenance document any maintenance items worked. Have Maintenance document deferrals; including those provided by EA from Engineering. Have all maintenance deferrals out of base maintenance worked off an internal RON work; documented per GPM (Procedures Manual) XX.YY or line per GMP XX.ZZ.
On DATE Aircraft X and Aircraft Y took maintenance delays in ZZZ. Aircraft X was for FMC 1 reset and Aircraft Y was for FMC 2 reset. Neither aircraft had a recorded Maintenance Item Control number for the task that was accomplished. The issue at hand is GPM XX-XY is very specific on resetting LMP essential components. It is also very specific on when a Ground confidence check is required and when it may not be required. GPM XX-XY.Z and XX-XZ.XA make note to a reset being within a 15 day window. What happened with these two aircraft were LMP essential components were reset and no record was noted to start the 15 day window. Suggestions - With this GPM reference changing so much recently; I am not sure the AMT's are aware of this. I believe LMP is a crucial program. I believe we are loosing the interest of AMT's with the LMP program as well as avionics. ZZZ1 recently hired avionics off of the street. That's unheard of. I have asked Maintenance management for avionics to be staffed in ZZZ like similar stations are. It has been rejected and the problem grows.
I was the Crew Chief on Aircraft X the morning of Date. The incident occurred [at] approx XA:00. The aircraft was on jacks for a test and while being lowered the aircraft made contact with the aft stabilizer. I was in the OTS (Out Of Service) office when I was notified of the incident.The aft stabilizer was not lowered fast enough to accommodate the lowering of the aircraft.Remove the stabilizer before down jacking.
On Date I was working a transit check on Aircraft X. I was doing the inspection of the cargo compartment and found that all the tape was missing from the joint between the sidewall panel and the ceiling panels. Both the forward and aft cargo compartments were missing the tape. The AMM (Aircraft Maintenance Manual) specifies that the joints require sealing tape for fire suppression. This has been an issue lately I have been finding. I found this on Aircraft Y on Date1 and Aircraft Z on Date2. There was another aircraft or two but I can not recall the nose numbers. I at first thought this was a one off situation but it appears to be more widespread of an issue. Some have just the ceiling joint but others have been missing sidewall seam tape also. This makes the aircraft not in compliance with the manual and a possible fire suppression issue as the compartment is not sealed.Possibly coming out of heavier checks incomplete as many of the compartments appear to have been redone in new tape and new panels. Much of the compartment is done and repaired but the ceiling seam is consistently missing.
While I was working a gate call for Aircraft X. I was alerted to a damaged drain mast by the ramp supervisor. After conferring with Maintenance Control Technician Y; we determined the aircraft was out of service as there were no deferral limits for the damage that the aircraft had. Supervisor insisted I defer it. Supervisor needs to let the mechanics do their job correctly and in accordance with Company procedures.
Aircraft X had a #2 Engine inflight shutdown to Airport Code ZZZ1 on DATE.   ZZZ Maintenance sent a crew to ZZZ1 to replace the HMU (Hydro-Mechanical Unit); fuel pump; filters; etc.Prior to the flight an operations check sheet log states the #2 Engine will not light off.   Crew reported Spar Valve circuit breaker (C/B) popped.   The aircraft was Trouble Shot and the flight crew write up did not mention the C/B popped.   Per the sign off the Fire Handle was cycled.
Certified Technicians Name and Name1 were tasked with replacing an E2 fuel low pressure switch on Aircraft X at the DS XX remote pad. They arrived at the aircraft which was currently having a Service Check and Star Flight Inspection complied with; and the APU was running. At approximately XA35 MT on Date; they were working on gaining access to the switch. They opened the E2 engine cowling; noticed some fuel dripping from the low pressure switch; and when they backed it off by a quarter turn; the switch shot off and fuel began spilling out of the line. Both Name and Name1 had fuel spray in their eyes. They immediately ran up to the cockpit and directed the other Mechanics on board to shut down the APU and the fuel pumps. They then notified me in order to inform me what happened and to have ZZZ Fire Department and EMS called to their location. Fire department and EMS arrived within minutes to assess the situation and provide first aid in the form of eye washes to both Mechanics. Name and Name1 were encouraged by EMS to seek medical attention from a hospital to err on the side of safety. Both Mechanics were then transported to the closest hospital emergency room by Crew Lead Name2. There; they were instructed to continue eye flushes as necessary; were discharged; and returned to work. I learned after the fact that this same fuel low pressure switch was removed by morning shift Mechanic Name3 earlier that morning. When Name3 learned that we did not have the appropriate o-ring packing in stock for to complete the removal/installation; he then temporarily installed the switch again. This maintenance went undocumented; and was not mentioned in any turn over from the morning shift Supervisor. No circuit breakers were pulled/collared; and no entries were made in the logbook. Of course; this does not dismiss the fact that Name and Name1 should have double-checked whether these circuit breakers were pulled and the aircraft was safe to perform this maintenance either.
Aircraft X and Aircraft Y  Name; Name1Troubleshooting MLG Bay OVHT Caution MEL on Aircraft X Myself and Name1 gathered all reference material off of [manual] and AMM to use to troubleshoot issue. Started to check loops in wheel bay; found to be good moved on with [manual] to change Gear OVHT Controller. Performed operations and functional test of system; found that warning fail test switch worked. Tested the OVHT warning on landing gear panel in center pedestal; which was found not to be working. So was instructed by acting supervisor for the night Name2 to swap landing gear panel from Aircraft Y which was also in the hangar as well as Aircraft X. We found that swapping the panel to test on Aircraft X did not help resolve issue; then proceeded to put the panel back from the aircraft it was on. Next we decided due to time we get caught up on all paperwork to where we were to get prepared for turnover for first shift. As we were discussing turnover Quality Control (QC) Name3 questioned about the swapped panels; which he then informed us they needed written up as well as a landing gear operations test which is also an RII item. We were unaware of the write up and operations check at the time; then we informed our Supervisor Name2 which then he told us to forget it and not to say anything. Then after further discussion he informed first shift Supervisor as well as the QC department. We then corrected our mistake by writing up both planes for the maintenance done and performed operations checks.I was made aware of the issue by QC Name3 3rd Shift. Event occurred due to acting Supervisor of the night Name2 instructing to swap landing gear panels to use for troubleshooting. Also inexperience with manuals and MEL task assigned for the night.When QC Name3 questioned about panels being swapped for troubleshooting purposes; we then informed Name2 of the issue to write up the maintenance done. Which then he told us to forget about it and not to say anything; then after further discussion he informed first shift Supervisor as well as the QC department.
This report is filed to report a maintenance omission.Aircraft X arrived with an APU keel duct pressure seal missing. The aircraft was taken out of service because of the lengthy time required to correct this issue. This can lead to pressurization leaks/issues. There have been several other aircraft with the same issue.
Description of events that occurred with Aircraft X; relating to rig pins being left in after a tension check had been performed. I worked that night with one other Mechanic on the job card. Neither one of us had ever performed the job before; and the lead on the task was trying to rush us through a lot faster than what we felt comfortable with. I installed the all 5 rig pins that needed to be installed listed in the job card. 4 in the front; 1 in the back. It took us a while to figure everything out and to try and navigate the aircraft figuring out where things were; and what needed to be adjusted. When I installed the rig pins the 'remove before flight' tags had been curled up and zip tied; and I neglected to cut the flags loose. We worked for several hours trying to get everything completed. We did our best to follow all of the paperwork; but it was quite overwhelming and we didn't have a lot of direction. We finally finished with the tension check; and had made all the adjustments that needed to be made. I safety wired the turnbuckles; and was all set. I pulled the single pin in the back and the Inspector on the job said he wanted to check my safety wire work; and said that he would pull the rig pins up front. That particular Inspector can be very challenging to work with at times; and is not easy to confront or talk to very well; and I did not feel comfortable double checking his work; because I was afraid of how upset it might make him; and he is usually quite [detailed] with his tasks that I felt confident he had done what he needed to do. Shortly after we cleaned everything up and clocked out. I was under the impression that we were going to turn the job over to the next shift and that they would perform the ops check that would need done; and then sign off the rest of the paperwork. I didn't realize that the paperwork had gotten signed all the way through. NAME; the other Mechanic had taken that over; because there was quite a lot of paperwork to be managed and he took responsibility of that. But the ops check was not performed; and the airplane got pushed out with one of the rig pins still in place. Event was discovered soon after the aircraft was pushed back from the Gate; and the plane was preparing to taxi. Rig pin was left in a locking position. I was very upset with everything that happened and fully understand how serious all of this has been; along with how I could have performed my job better to prevent the incident. I would potentially add an ops check on the job-card itself and not just on the tension adjustment task. Because even though we had it out; it was overlooked; and I think having an operational check on the job card may have potentially prevented this issue.
The day-to-day operations at ZZZ Line Maintenance is that all Line / Zones X - B work the through flights and [the] Hangar works OOS (Out of Service) aircraft and other scheduled maintenance tasks requiring longer ground time. Normally; no one from the Line / Zone is sent to [the] Hangar to work OOS aircraft since it reduces manpower to work through flights. Aircraft go OOS daily and there have been many occasions when OOS aircraft are parked at the Hangar waiting for manpower to be available. But even at that time; no one from the Line / Zone are sent to [the] Hangar to work OOS aircraft. The aircraft remains parked until [the] Hangar has manpower available to work. But on Date; it all changed. As a licensed A&P technician it is my duty and obligation to report known discrepancies. While working the Line / Zone Y; I reported two discrepancies on Aircraft X for cracks in vertical pressure deck web. Both of these cracks were verified by QC Inspector on log pages X and Y. Everyone knows how catastrophic; deadly; dangerous; and damaging vertical pressure deck web cracks can be. Immediately after that; I was re-assigned and sent to [the] Hangar to follow the OOS aircraft and start [the] open up for required sheet metal repair; which was out of the norm.When I arrived at [the] Hangar; the Lead Tech had already assigned other technicians to work this aircraft. Sending me to the Hangar did not alleviate any manpower shortages there; but created a shortage of manpower to work through flights at Line / Zone Y. This added unnecessary additional burden to work through flights on remaining technicians in Line / Zone Y. This was done clearly to punish; retaliate; single out; harass; discriminate; intimidate; threaten and create fear to report known discrepancies.On that day the following policies were ignored by management team: [company core values]. Instead; the following were used by the management team on duty: Punishment; Retaliation; Intimidation; Discrimination; Harassment; Threatening; [and] Fear tactics. Since this has happened; it has created a lot of animosity and anxiety among other technicians to come forward and report discrepancies in fear of retaliation and harassment. This makes for a hostile work environment for all and puts safety at risk. Unfortunately; it is becoming common practice" and "normal" here at ZZZ to retaliate only against technicians who report known discrepancies under the Director and his management team.Knowing the potential hazard posed by vertical pressure deck web cracks; no one from the management team has come forward and said; "Good find; let's get this fixed." Instead; they opted to punish and retaliate against [the] Technician for reporting [the] discrepancy. A disgraceful and shameful behavior from entire ZZZ Management Team involved."
Maintenance techs were complying with RON package for aircraft. They were completing task card # XXXXXXXX under work order # XXXXXX. Upon removal of panels to access O2 generators they found safety pins that prohibit activation of O2 generators still installed.I was made aware of something this evening that I feel must be passed on to you. We had Aircraft X at the hangar tonight as a RON.  Included in the package was task task card # XXXXXXXX; Verify Lanyard Alignment for O2 Generators.  Aircraft was being worked on by Name 1; Name 2;  and Name 3. When they removed the panel to gain access to the generators they found that several of the generators had the safety pin that prevents the generator from being activated still installed with a red safety flag attached. Two of these generators were located at the emergency exit doors.  Had we not had this job card to perform this would not have been found. This aircraft was just released from Heavy Check today; and this was the very first flight after maintenance. I believe the event occurred due to complacency and failure to follow proper protocols after maintenance.Had this aircraft been carrying passengers and an actual emergency happened where these masks were needed several passengers would not  have been able to receive any O2. I am not exactly sure who should also be notified to check into this or what else can be done so I am sending it to you. I just feel that this should be looked into further as this is a safety of flight issue to me. It makes me wonder what else might be getting missed or overlooked at this or other facilities like this one and how do we protect the company and our passengers from situations like this.
On Date I was assigned to the fuel nozzle mod on the Left Engine; Aircraft X. I documented the MPNs and SNs of the removed fuel nozzles on card number 1 as well as 5 non-routines; NR1; NR2; NR3; NR4; and NR5. On Date1; a week later; Stores Manager notified me that I documented the wrong MPNs and SNs. The fuel nozzles were never shipped out to the vendor. Instead; used fuel components sat in ZZZ Stores for a week. He also stated that only I can correct the info on the unserviceable tags. Since there is no signature or stamp on the unserviceable tag; his instruction was diametrically false. Any stock clerk could make the corrections on the unserviceable tag. I asked Stores to print new unserviceable tags using the existing tracking #. They said it was impossible because all 18 fuel nozzles were received. The resultant corrections on the unserviceable tags made the document almost unreadable. Since the error was pointed out to me; I had to void and correct the rotatable parts info on the aforementioned non-routines. Then I had the clerk rescan the non-routines to the software. However; the non-routines could not be reopened in a different program to update the parts info. Ergo; I had to file a message.The paperwork burden on the mechanic is overwhelming and a distraction from the actual work. If Stores can process parts after discovering an error why is the mechanic's participation even required? Encumbering mechanics with needless administrative work is a distraction which ultimately leads to human errors. The overwhelming paperwork saddled onto mechanics is leading to an unsafe environment; parts entry into the program; Technical Service Items with unreadable language; documentation that is worse than an MIT entrance exam; etc. All taking the mechanic's critical attention away from the actual maintenance.
Aircraft X arrived t the gate with the clamp missing on keel beam APU duct pressure seal. After further inspection; I found that the clamp had slipped off AND WAS NOT MISSING. The aircraft was taken out of service because of the lengthy time required to correct this issue. This can lead to potential pressurization issues and leaks. There have been several other aircraft seen with the same issue.
A crew out on a electronic news gathering (eng) flight experienced an in flight illumination of the tail rotor gearbox chip indicator light. A precautionary landing was made at ZZZ. A mechanic was dispatched with the manufacturer's instructions and sufficient oil to flush the gearbox and do the required post check runs. No further problems developed and the aircraft was placed back in service. As I went to the aircraft's historical record cards to check on the gearbox total time and history; I was informed that the serial number did not match the currently installed gearbox; an overhauled gearbox was installed on Date and the one in the aircraft records had been removed.The work order with the gearbox change was sitting on the office administrators desk and had not been reviewed by the Director of Maintenance and myself the Chief Inspector. Each time a gearbox is changed; the manufacturer specifies certain post installation inspections be performed at 2-8 hours; 10; 20 and 30 hours including an oil change after 2 hours and recurring chip plug inspections. These were not done and the aircraft had been returned to service with no follow on maintenance recorded in the aircraft records. This shop has repeatedly just installed components without concern for the required post installation checks. The manufacturer's manuals were not consulted during the gearbox change.[Contributing factors are] Pressure from operations to get the aircraft back in service for the customer closing out work orders on the weekend when no office personnel are on duty. The lack of employees in the records department to review and monitor the work orders for proper completion and ensure procedures are followed.
Aircraft X arrived as flight from ZZZ. The flight crew reported the right Nose cowl anti-ice valve illuminated in flight. Company Maintenance Control was notified and the decision to place it on Mel 30-00-XX-X; with associated Mel 36-00-XX. The AMM references were received and the right engine was opened to lock the nose cowl anti ice valve in the open position and the high stage valve in the closed position. The AMM calls for the cannon plug to the TAI (Thermal Anti Ice) pressure switch to be disconnected. While in the process of completing the MEL procedure I was receiving maintenance call from our other business partners. I disconnected the cannon plug for the anti ice valve instead of the pressure switch. The high stage valve was locked closed and engine cowls closed. The log book signed and aircraft released for service. The aircraft left the gate and returned to gate after EICAS warning. Upon arrival back to gate the right engine fan cowl was opened. The anti ice valve cannon plug reconnected and the TAI pressure switch cannon plug disconnected per the AMM. The engine fan cowl was closed and the logbook signed. The root cause for this incident was the distraction of the incoming maintenance calls and not going back three steps to make sure the proper cannon plug was disconnected. The aircraft left the gate and the fight arrived to ZZZ without further problems.
I was sent to Gate XX to Aircraft X by my Lead so the original pilot can fix his write up on Aircraft X log book. When I got to the gate the aircraft was already push back on the aisle way. I used the ramp headset and spoke to the Pilot. Who I was and why I was there. I ask him if it was ok for me to bring a lift & give him the log book through the window so he can fix his write up. He said ok. I ask him to turn his engine #1 off & he gave me a signal to come through engine #2 to double check I ask him again to turn his engine #1 off. he gave me the signal to come around engine #2 for the second time. I said ok; few minutes later I drove across in the front of the Aircraft X and park the lift on the right side of the aircraft under co pilot window. When I came back the ramp people were gone but the engine #2 was off. Since engine #2 was off I thought me and the Pilot were on] the same page. I park the lift and put the stabilizer down before I can go up the aircraft started rolling but engine #2 was still off. Try to move it but there was nothing I can do so I jumped off the lift. After that the aircraft impacted the lift.I was rushing and didn't follow all the steps. [I should have taken my] time.
Found L-3 door knurled nut safetied but fork not engaged (see pic). During initial review; Job Card XXXXXXXXXXX was accomplished in ZZZ on DATE.
On Date; MEL 78-XX Logbook Deferral Sheet XXXXXXX was assigned on an overnight maintenance work. We were expected to replace 1 of 2 actuators. The original MEL referenced Eng #1 upper left and upper right thrust reverser actuators failed integrity tests; only 1 of the 2 monitors were noted in the MEL. After additional review it was noted monitor Logbook Deferral Sheet YYYYYYY was to replace the left sleeve upper actuator - outboard; and Logbook Deferral Sheet ZZZZZZZ was to replace the right sleeve upper actuator - inboard. The monitors were inadvertently attached to the component" and not the airframe.I communicated with planning to add Logbook Deferral Sheet YYYYYYY to the overnight maintenance work for ZZZ to replace the upper left sleeve actuator. I also had Logbook Deferral Sheet XXXXXXX unlocked for MEL deferral as we would only replace one of the 2 actuators. I updated the MEL Logbook Deferral Sheet XXXXXXX stating both monitor items had to be completed for the MEL; stating both actuators need replacement. The 3rd shift AMTs (Aviation Maintenance Technician) assigned used job card X and proceeded with removal and replacement of the upper left outboard actuator. By [the] end of shift the new actuator was partially installed [and] both a written and hands-on verbal turnover were provided to the next shift. Prior to the end of my shift; I again updated the MEL item XXXXXXX deferral. I believed the installation of the actuator would be complete and referenced YYYYYYY and wrote "replaced upper left actuator" and that the right actuator replacement was required reference ZZZZZZZ. However; the AMTs that took over the job completed the hook-up and operations and leak checks but were not able to complete the rigging due to lack of tooling.YYYYYYY was deferred and accurately updated with the open rigging steps on the job card. This Logbook Deferral Sheet was open and documented properly; and the thrust reverser still on MEL; when the aircraft departed ZZZ on Date. My MEL deferral statement above was no longer accurate as the replacement was incomplete. The actuator that was removed had remained at ZZZ and was not released for shipping due to some type of processing issue. On Date 1 the store's personnel brought this up to a Crew Chief on duty; the part change was entered on the open MEL Logbook Deferral Sheet XXXXXXX; using the same text I had entered on Date; and that MEL/Logbook Deferral Sheet remained open.Unknown to anyone at the time this part change entry automatically triggered Logbook Deferral Sheet YYYYYYY to be changed from Aircraft X to a mock Aircraft Y. This is an automatic process within the Company system that has created a significant problem at this point; the repetitive check deferral was no longer attached to Aircraft X. This automatic process may be due to attaching the repetitive check deferral to the component; but I do not know this for sure.The right actuator was replaced on Date 2 and since the open repetitive check deferral for the rigging of the left actuator was no longer attached to the Aircraft X; the MEL was cleared. This created an overfly of the open repetitive check deferral. This automated process which sent the repetitive check deferral to the mock aircraft created the failure generating the overfly. This issue started with the lack of tooling in ZZZ needed to complete the replacement of the upper left actuator. The only reason it was deferred after installation was lack of tooling to confirm rigging. Secondarily; the process rolled the open repetitive check deferral to a mock Aircraft Y when a parts change [that] was entered was flawed. It is possible this would not have occurred if the repetitive check deferrals were attached to the aircraft; not the component.Suggestions to avoid recurrence. Have adequate tooling for aircraft maintenance. Ensure Line Maintenance uses the airframe selection for repetitive check deferrals. Attaching to component should only be for shop-level deferrals. Alter the process that rolled the item to a false/mock aircraft."
Aircraft X arrived to Gate XX. During walk-around; found air gap around Blocker Door #3 on #2 ENG INBD Thrust Reverser (T/R). After further inspection it was discovered that a #5 Blocker Door was installed in Position #3. #3 Blocker Door part number is 31-XXXX-X-XXXX. See IPC (Illustrated Parts Catalog) REF 78-XX-XX-XX.Only Blocker Doors #2; #3; and #4 are the same part number. Blocker Door #5 is [a] different part number. Blocker Door #1 is [a] different part number.Further investigation revealed that either #1 or #5 Blocker Door can be installed in #2; #3 and #4 position. But #2; #3 and #4 Blocker Doors can't be installed in either #1 or #5 position. Unable  to find when last maintenance was done on this thrust reverser half or blocker door. This may be a vendor issue installing blocker doors in wrong positions at the time of thrust reverser half build up. Need to pay better attention on building thrust reverser up...never rush or get in a hurry; do the job correct the first time. Safety should always be our #1 priority!!!!!!!
Aircraft X arrived [at] ZZZ with #2 eng inboard t-r sleeve completely missing krueger flap fairing. It was never installed and plugs were in place. See log page for details.
On Date; I was assigned to work on Aircraft X. The aircraft was out of service due to hydraulic contamination issues. I was assigned with Mechanic to a transit inspection check. While doing the exterior inspection of the tires I found the #2 and #4 tires worn. The #2 MLG tire was replaced without incident. Using the same 95 ton jack; with the #4 MLG tire removed and the new tire secured on the axle. I entered the flight deck to release the parking breaks to allow the rotation of the tire to facilitate the torquing of the nut; to complete the installation. I released the brakes and heard and felt a loud noise from the aircraft. I reset the brakes to secure the aircraft. Upon further evaluation the axle jack was ejected from the right MLG strut. The jack struck the service cart parked approximately 12 ft. forward of the gear. I noticed hydraulic fluid on the floor under the jack as well as the underside of the axle. It appeared that the jack had failed. None of the others assigned were hurt as other maintenance was being performed. Name and I went to retrieve another jack to complete the torquing of the #4 tire and accomplish a more detailed inspection of the underside of the Right MLG. An initial inspection found damage to a bracket for electrical conduits as well as the forward edge of the truck.
On the night of DATE the ZZZ EBU (Engine Build Up) crew required additional lubricant referred to as Molykote G-N Assembly Paste in Engineering Authorization X rev I. After referencing Aircraft Maintenance Manual; it was determined that we had not been using the lubricant called out for in the Aircraft Maintenance Manual. Engineering has since verified that the Lubricant p/n DCGNK listed in the Engineering Authorization (full document) has been no longer approved for this task. The correct lubricant was not set up in our parts system and an ECRA (Engineering Change Request Authorization) generated to create an M&E number to start the process of procuring the correct lubricant. A couple of concerning issues are [the] Company did not discontinue the scheduling of these tasks except for ZZZ after an aircraft was deferred in lieu of performing the job without the required lubricant. A review of logs indicated other stations were still performing the task. To date the system is not set up with the correct lubricant and some of the stations show zero quantity of an aerosol spray that supposedly; can be used as a non-preferred application method. Not only non-preferred but also pointed out to local management near impossible to get the coating thickness requirements met on the required areas of the Fan Disk (pressure faces of the dove tail and the Booster Spool face where the blade dovetail contacts). While the Engineering Authorization is specific to which form of lubricant to use; the use of the non-preferred method; aerosol spray raises safety and health issues especially as most of these tasks are performed in an uncontrolled environment prohibiting suitable precautions to be taken. This; in addition to the quality consideration of the work accomplished.
DATE. While I was in ZZZ1 working at the [Company]; my lead mechanic told me the regional maintenance manager; NAME; and NAME1 were in ZZZ2 working on Aircraft X. They were trying to fix a MEL and needed parts. He asked me to drive to ZZZ2 and bring them what they needed. I called NAME1 in ZZZ2 to go over the parts and tools needed. When I arrived at the ZZZ2 base; they had ceiling panels removed from the [aircraft] while trying to fix the Tracking System. I brought in the tools and parts and assisted them with troubleshooting the tracking system. After troubleshooting; we narrowed it down to the tracking antenna. I asked my RMM if they had that part and he replied 'no.' Then I asked NAME how many days were left on the MEL. To which he replied; 'It expires today.' I stated; so are you going to request an extension? NAME replied; you cannot extend a category 'A' MEL. I replied; so will the aircraft be grounded? NAME replied; no we can sign it off. I looked perplexed and said 'I didn't think you could sign off an MEL without fixing it?' He assured me that we could. My confusion increased. We were on the Heli-Pad when this conversation took place. I then put the chopper spotter underneath the aircraft to move it back to the hanger. When in the hanger; NAME asked me if I could start working on the MEL paperwork. This question caught me off guard because until two hours ago; I didn't even know this MEL existed. NAME and NAME1 were the two mechanics working on this MEL. Why would he ask me to sign it off? He is an A&P and the one working on the aircraft. For the second time I asked; are you sure you can sign off an MEL when the item is not fixed. I don't know what to write for something like that. I wasn't understanding what he was saying. With frustration; NAME assured me that it could be done and that I needed to look at our company's GOM. I told NAME I didn't have my laptop with me because I thought I was just bringing parts. He told me I could use his. I then attempted to navigate his laptop and access the GOM. After reading through the MEL portion of the GOM; I couldn't find any instructions to sign off an MEL that had not been fixed. I thought; maybe I am missing something and asked NAME for clarification. I approached NAME for the third time on this topic and asked 'NAME; I don't know how you sign off an MEL in the corrective action section of the logbook when the MEL wasn't corrected.' NAME looked at me; visually frustrated; and with a raised voice said; 'I will just fucking do it myself.' and stormed off to the log book. This response shocked me because his demeanor towards me was so angry. I felt threatened. I was only trying to make sure we were correcting the MEL properly. After asking multiple times if we could sign the MEL off the way NAME was describing; I began to doubt myself. I thought; maybe I am wrong? He is my superior and has told me this is the correct way to sign it off. Even to the point where he was cursing mad. As he started to look through the logbook; his frustration grew. He started to yank out supplemental log book pages that were not properly stapled to the log page. NAME turned to me and asked 'Why haven't you fixed this?' I hesitantly replied; this is not my aircraft or logbook (My home base is in ZZZ1.). This is the first time I have looked at this logbook. With frustration in his voice he said; it doesn't matter why it's wrong. It's just wrong. That's the problem with the mechanics in this company. No one wants to do their job. After aggressively stapling the SUPP sheets to the log sheets; he verbally told me how to sign off the MEL in the physical log book while he signed it off in [Software Company]. I hastily reacted; and signed it off stating that I trouble shot the tracking system ops check failed. NAME told me as long as we attempted to fix it; that it could be signed off and then re-opened for an additional 20 days. So that's what I did. Looking back; I wish I would have listened to my A&P knowledge and what I thought was the right way to handle the MEL. Instead; because I felt manipulated and bullied; I signed off the MEL as my superior requested. He had created a hostile work environment and even though I had the choice to say no; I felt like I didn't. In addition; Maintenance Control approved the logbook sign off so I assumed it was the correct way. However; after the fact; I still felt uneasy with the decision I made. I decided to speak with several A&P mechanics who assured me that an MEL could not be signed off that way. This is when I was positive I had made a mistake. I allowed myself to be bullied into making a decision I was not confident in. I take my job very seriously and want to be the first to admit I made a mistake. In the future I will do my due diligence to not be swayed by others.
I did not witness this; I was told after it happened: '#1 tire came loose; while towing airplane from bay to blast fence. Loud popping sound was observed and upon investigation; found #1 tire cockeyed. Removed hubcap and found axle nut completely removed from axle; possible thread damage on axle and axle nut; outboard bearing inboard and outboard retainer and seal damaged; axle nut locking bolt sheared; brake assembly damaged.' 'They observed that the incorrect axle nut may have been possibly installed. This axle was modified and requires the reworked axle nut assembly (yellow colored) but white axle nut was installed and appears to have much play possibly leading to this incident occurring.'I was called to give ok to install the #1; #2; #4 and #6 wheel assemblies of the left Main Landing Gear. I gave them the ok to install and went on other job calls. When the tire installations were completed; I returned to the left Main Landing Gear to verify that all four tires were installed. I did not see the nut installation since the hubcaps; clamps and lock wire were installed. I believe more training is required on how to identify the proper hardware to use on the Main Landing Gear.
During the annual inspection of the Cessna 188 I removed a Clevis bolt that secures the upper and lower elevator control cables to the control stick. I found the bolt to be excessively worn so the cables remained detached while a replacement bolt was on order. When the new clevis bolt arrived I installed it into the control stick securing only the upper cable. After installation I moved the control stick to actuate the elevator and it seemed to work properly because the attached cable moved the elevator up and gravity pulled the elevator back down. Flight control freedom of movement was also checked by two other A&P Mechanics and the pilot before flight. The lower elevator control cable is routed from the control stick through a tube and then down around a pulley. When the problem was discovered; the lower cable end was hidden inside the tube. I believe the hidden cable is one factor that lead to my mistake. Another factor is my failure to request a secondary maintenance check. The problem was initially discovered by the pilot just after takeoff when he realized he had no control of the elevator. The plane was then landed with no damage or injuries. After landing a flight control inspection revealed a very loose elevator cable under the pilot seat and the inspector followed the cable forward to find the end inside the tube but not connected to the control stick as it should be. I then installed the lower cable along with the upper cable to the control stick with the clevis bolt. No other discrepancies were found during the post flight inspection.
Aircraft X landed at ZZZ and #3 brake assembly was found damaged and parts of the brake were found on the ramp and the brake was seized to tire and wheel assembly when trying to replace the brake. Upon further investigation [Name] and I accomplished a quick search on the 737 MAX aircraft and found that there is a history of damaged and seized brake assemblies on the 737 MAX Fleet. For example [similar problems affecting five other B737 MAX aircraft] were found during a quick history search. Someone needs to look into this matter more deeply and further investigate why the 737 MAX brake assemblies are being found seized and damaged to the point where they are breaking apart and debris found on the ramp.We need a deeper investigation on the brake assemblies that are being installed on the 737 MAX Aircraft as we are finding these brake assemblies breaking apart and/or damaged during aircraft arrival. It could either be a bad batch of brakes; brake failure or a systemic issue with these carbon brakes on the 737 MAX Aircraft. This needs to be investigated as soon as possible to avoid a possible accident.
I was working with Avionics Tech Name; we accomplished both Task Cards. XX-XXXX-X-XXXX and XX-XXXX-XXXY. This was a quick turn back to terminal. I signed off both job cards on my IPAD and realized that I made the mistake of signing for both EEC (Electronic Engine Control) 1 and 2 existing fault checks that were ETOPS issued work. I should have Read and understand task card.
ZZZ Maintenance reported the pin retention boss for pin for handle lever was broken off. I went to engineering and engineer Name directed that MEL XX-XX-XX-2 be used that GMM 03.05.01.01 was to be used to authorize use of .032 stainless safety wire as an alternate fastener. I have not heard of using safety wire as an alternate fastener to be standard industry practice and no boss to secure it to in addition. I relayed my concern for safety of the aircraft that inside of the dump chute exposed to outside atmospheric pressure and the exterior of the chute being exposed to differential pressure could collapse the duct and depressurize aircraft. Dispute resolution signed by the Company forcing me into this action.
A number of 757 main wheels were sent out for repair to vendor X. Vendor X rejected all of these wheels for corrosion deeper than allowed. The wheels were then sent to vendor Y and they reference the same Component Maintenance Manual (CMM) that the wheels were repaired. I am concerned that these wheels should be scrapped instead of being put on an aircraft.
After [the] engine run for number 1 bearing manifold O-Ring leak check; [I] noticed captive barrel nuts for spinner had dislodged and damaged several fan blades and engine liners. The engine was run without the spinner for the purpose of the leak check. [The] Aircraft Maintenance Manual called for spinner installation.
[The incident] occurred during [a] regular overnight maintenance shift. Action was the replacement of a left angle of attack sensor. During replacement of a panel associated with this sensor in the pressurized part of the aircraft; improper fasteners with an excessive grip length were used by someone under my supervision; which I failed to notice due to performing other maintenance tasks in the hangar. The excessive grip length caused the screws to bottom out against their nut plates and record sufficient torque for installation before the panel was completely in place. My post-installation inspection of the work did not catch the improper installation; which was not visible once the panel was installed and sealed. This problem was discovered when mechanics pressurized the aircraft for other maintenance and felt a leak from the AOA panel as they passed by. They installed a new AOA sensor and noticed that the screws had an incorrect grip length; so they replaced the attaching hardware to correct the problem.The causes of the event include: a lack of knowledge about fasteners by an employee with about 7 months of experience; my failure to train this employee on types of fasteners; lack of good standard procedures for verifying the correct fastener.This incident will result in everyone with limited experience getting a lecture and demonstration of different fasteners used on our aircraft. Also; procedures will be updated to require everyone to compare old fasteners with new ones for each installation. In the event of any doubt about whether the correct fasteners are available; technicians are to consult a Crew Lead.
While enroute from ZZZ1 to ZZZ2 at FL240; we received a Master Warning and Check Fire Detection indication of an APU Fire. After looking over the checklist; we noticed the APU panel had the 'BTL LOW' light illuminated; suggesting the system automatically blew the fire protection bottle. We didn't know the extent of the situation so we decided to treat it as priority and divert. We were about 40 miles east of ZZZ3 at the time; so we declared priority; called for the trucks; and began our diversion. The Captain made his required calls while I flew the plane and loaded the box. Upon landing; the fire trucks checked out the plane and determined there was no indication of fire. We proceeded with a normal taxi to the gate and deplaned. After Maintenance completed their inspections; they found no evidence to suggest there was a real fire.  As far as I know; we did everything we could to address the situation. The checklist didn't apply very accurately to the situation since we don't run the APU in flight; but still ran through it as well as we could. We didn't have any exceedances and we were below our max landing weight.I'd say the biggest lesson I learned is that sometimes strange things can occur that you can't really train for. In this case; the checklist wasn't much help because the APU wasn't running. In a situation like this; we needed to use the information we had to get the plane on the ground as safely and efficiently as we could. It was also a reminder to be aware of the best diversion options while en route. The Captain knew exactly where we should go which allowed for a safe and immediate diversion. In the future; I plan to think more intentionally as to where the best diversion location would be.
Aircraft X had a low speed rejected takeoff for takeoff configuration status message for rudder trim. I mistakenly did not realize that it was a Company event and they needed return to the gate for a rudder trim inspection; due to the rudder trim being at fault.Maintenance Operations Manager made we aware of the event and we tried to stop the aircraft from taking off; but we were unable to get them on ACARS in time.I was unaware that it was a Company event and I was reading the QRH CRJ-700 with the crew and the note said NOTE:After any RTO (Rejected Takeoff) greater than 80 knots; the crew must seek approval to continue from a Chief Pilot; Fleet Manager or Director of Operations.The best method to facilitate this communication is through Dispatch.All RTOs will be documented with a Safety Report. The speed that the crew said was only 50 knot when they performed the rejected takeoff.My mistake was just consulting the QRH and not the GMM (General Maintenance Manual) for the definition of a [event].
I am writing this statement in the event of Aircraft X; Emergency Escape Slide Pin Removal. Airbus Canada contacted Company to inform them that they had a quality error. They delivered Aircraft X to ZZZ for a prior to service visit with the emergency escape slide pins installed. The aircraft had been flying revenue passengers for approximately a month when they notified the Company. On DATE; I was contacted by my manager stating that I was the last to sign for the door slide pins and I needed to file a Company report. On DATE1 I was notified by Company to complete the report. Here is the timeline. Aircraft X was delivered to ZZZ for prior to service visit followed by a special visit. During the prior to service visit; work instruction cards; Deactivate Escape Sides (RII) and Reactivate Escape Slide (RII) are issued. The main cabin doors are opened and remained open by the use of the slide disarm lever on the interior of the door. Due to no actual maintenance taken place on the doors the door bustles are not removed and the slide pin is not installed. Both task were signed off and the work package was closed. After completion of the prior to service package the aircraft now enters a special visit package to undergo the FDA and 121 inspections. During this visit the aircraft has little to no maintenance and the aircraft is considered under quarantine for the 121 Inspection. The same cards; Deactivate Escape Slides and Reactivate Escape Slides are assigned to this visit. Like the prior to service with no door maintenance task being assigned; the main cabin doors are opened using the slide disarm lever on the interior of the door. The slide bustles were not removed and the pins were not installed per steps 1(X) and 1(Y). Now where I come into this; step 1(X) states to remove the safety pin from the emergency escape slide nitrogen bottle pin hole and put the safety pin in the pocket on the slide. Step 1(Y) states IF REMOVED; install the applicable liner. As the door bustles had not been previously removed I regrettably assumed the slide pins had not been installed or left installed from the manufacture. I did not remove the door bustles and verify that the pin had been removed and I did not reinstall the bustles as the card instructs. I did deviate from the written instruction card task and take fully responsibility for my actions. I apologize for my oversight; and I fully understand the severity this could have. Company Maintenance was notified; and the door slide pins have been removed.
On Date; the tail rotor laminated half-shell bearings were replaced on Aircraft X. The tail rotor was presented for CYA (angle of attack system) for assembly and I failed to notice that the bolts were installed incorrectly at this time. Later that same day the tail rotor was installed on the aircraft and I performed the Required Inspection Item for installation of the tail rotor. Ground runs and vibration checks were performed with normal results and the aircraft was returned to service. No mention of abnormal behavior or vibration was reported by the pilots an any time. On Date 1 the off going night shift pilot asked me if the bolts were installed correctly. I told him that I would have to double check the manual; but a quick look at an adjacent aircraft revealed that they were installed the same way on that aircraft. I then went and checked the manual and discovered that the bolts were installed incorrectly on both aircraft. I immediately informed Name and removed the aircraft from service. We removed the tail rotors from both aircraft; removed and reinstalled the bolts in the correct orientation; inspected spherical thrust bearings and reinstalled the tail rotors. Vibration checks were normal and the aircraft were returned to service.Suggestions - Ensure AMTs and pilots are made aware of the correct orientation of the through bolts. Perhaps a note or caution in the Aircraft Maintenance manual to be sure and install bolts in the correct orientation.
Aircraft X arrived ZZZ with Krueger flap fairing installed on the outboard T-R (Thrust Reverser) sleeve on #2 Engine. This is wrong configuration. The Krueger flap fairing is to be installed only on the inboard T-R sleeve per AMM (Aircraft Maintenance Manual).[Aircraft] taken OOS (Out of Service). Further investigation into this matter revealed that this T-R sleeve was recently replaced which is also missing rotable parts information. There have been numerous reports filed for Krueger flap fairings; Krueger flap deflectors; and hinge bump fairings installed in wrong config and/or missing on T-R sleeve. [There have been 14 reports] since reoccurrence of this same issue; it is advisable to make the T-R sleeve installation an inspection item. This will help prevent future incidents. Also an [company notification] and/or safety bulletin will bring awareness to this issue.
Aircraft X flew into ZZZ with a COMM 1 and 2 issue. During much troubleshooting; the crew and mechanics reported seeing an 'ADC' (Air Data Computer) Amber msg on both PFDs. The COMM issue was resolved; then we began troubleshooting the ADC msg. During troubleshooting; I had the Mechanics power off the aircraft for around 30 minutes. When the Mechanics returned to the aircraft; I then had them disconnect both ADC Cannon Plugs and wait another 5 mins before powering on. I did not consider this to be an 'Installation' of the ADCs as is marked in the Required Inspection Item (RII) List. The Mechanics reconnected the Cannon Plugs and continued troubleshooting; as the Aircraft Power Down was not a fix. Later still during troubleshooting; the ADC Ops check was performed by a non-RII Mechanic; which at the time i did not realize was an RII Task.I will familiarize myself more with the RII List and be sure to always check and double check the List when sending roadtrips or asking Mechanics to perform tasks. I missed the 'System Check' Field of the ADC RII Listing before asking mechanics to perform the ADC Ops Check.
On Date Aircraft X had an open write up for an ADC issue. The PM shift began troubleshooting the problem with Maintenance and performed a task a certain way thinking that it wouldn't be RII since they were not opening both systems at the same time per the RII list. With contract having no success after the re-rack one side at a time which wasn't documented in the logbook and only listed in a turnover; the RII was missed. A ZZZ road trip was set up prior to my arrival with limited parts and tooling. The mechanics that were sent already had an idea of what needed accomplished and had the required references needed in the event; so when they arrived at the aircraft they went to work immediately.The mechanics had a few issues during ops and leak checks and reached out to another base for some direction per my request. Shortly after; the checks began going smoothly and knowing the checks a quite lengthy I let them work with little to no interruptions only for a fatigue check. Around XA:00 they stated that the write up should be signed off within the hour pending the results of the final function check that was required; then would have to remove all the test equipment and complete the paperwork; while requesting to be put on the first flight out back to ZZZ which was the aircraft they were fixing. I had asked that a member of morning shift get that process started since I was going to be off shift when they were supposed to depart. As XB:00 approached; operations and dispatch were asking for a RTS update along with a rush to try and get the mechanics checked in on the flight since it an hour prior cut off; all while not knowing where the mechanics stood close out and clean up wise. At XB:15 the mechanics finally uploaded a photo of the completed logbook; while I was in the middle of typing my turnover to the morning shift for them to take over; with the flight due out shortly I checked the verbiage they entered and verified the references they listed then began entering all the information in to the maintenance systems trying to keep the flight on time looking over the 'no' circled under RII when in fact it is RII. The aircraft was released for flight but aborted takeoff due to not having any air speed indication even though the air speed checked fine during the function check. The aircraft RTG and another road trip was set up after I had gone home for the day.Always document all work completed on the aircraft and verify the work done is cross checked with the RII list. Also don't rush paperwork to try and save the right start. Not creating a discrepancy for troubleshooting causing a missed RII with contract maintenance and rushing over paperwork at shift end to not cause a maintenance delay.
On DATE I was performing test no.7 pretested replacement engine-operational test per AMM 71-00-00 on aircraft X #2 engine at the ZZZ.  We had completed step B(10) The Engine Anti-Ice (engine in operation) System Test and were moving on to the test of the Engine Vibration Monitoring System. Reading through the paperwork we came upon a statement saying that a vibration test is not necessary if you do not do maintenance on the fan.  We were working with a pretested engine that tells me it came from the vendor already tested. After going through the ELB and not seeing maintenance done to the fan my coworkers and I agreed that the vibration tests were not necessary as per the paperwork. We did not know at the time that only the propulsor came from the vendor and the engine shop had to install the fan frame; blades and spinner. Now knowing that any 787 engine installed on the aircraft has been built up at the station it will require a vibration survey I believe that the statement 'a vibration test is not necessary if you did not do maintenance to the fan' should be removed as it is misleading especially if you do not know that the engine is assembled at the station by the engine shop; as was the case with my colleagues.
Note: I was off work from DATE till DATE (work related injury). Shortly after returning to my work cell at which I have been working since Date; I noticed 2 RH fan cowls in our Serviceable Queue without Lockable Latches even though the P/N and documents called for it. I brought this to the attention of my supervisor and MPA (Maintenance Planning Analyst). I recommended the cowls be made unserviceable and paperwork packages be made so I could replace the regular latches with the Lockable ones as this was a safety item and when an A/C orders this P/N they expect to have them in place. The documents clearly state [this procedure] mandates both Lockable Latch and 30 hole Strake be installed in order to be serviceable. The reason I am singling out Cowl SN XXXXXXX is because on DATE2 this year after looking up repair history on XXXXXXX of which there are 5 pages ; on page 5 it clearly shows in I made a Lead request to put on the Lockable Latch after consulting with my lead and engineering. I installed it and I signed it off. I also listed the 3 parts I installed under Serviced Items in [maintenance tracking program]. In closing I need to make it clear; I know I put the Lockable Latch on; but upon my return to work I found a regular latch was in its place.
On the evening of DATE; I was asked to help out another hangar with the testing of a replacement #2 engine on Aircraft X. Myself and another borrowed technician from yet another hangar were going to drive this plane to the run up blocks to perform the needed runs/tests in the presence of an accompanying QC inspector. Since the other 787 run qualified technician and myself were not at all involved or familiar with this engine change; I requested (via text at XA:28) that a technician assigned to and working the #2 engine change accompany us on the run to monitor the tests but this request was not granted/approved. We were informed that the newly installed #2 engine was a pretested engine and that some of the tests had been completed previously and we were instructed to perform the steps indicated as remaining on log page X. We completed steps 1.B.(5) and 1.B.(10) of Aircraft Maintenance Manual 71-00-00 and were about to continue when we saw the maintenance note stating that a vibration test is not necessary if you did not perform maintenance to the fan. Since the three of us in the cockpit had driven out to the run up blocks with the test #9 paperwork (vibration survey) in hand; we felt compelled to call the the supervisor to confirm if the vibe survey was needed or not. The phone call was made from the run up blocks on my phone at XA:38 by the QC inspector to the supervisor and he said no maintenance had been done on the fan which is what we saw indicated by the logbook when we reviewed it. The following statement was submitted on a report by the other run taxi qualified tech. I concur with this statement and description of the events.
The supervisor called the ready room at about XA:25 and wanted to discuss the previous issue regarding Aircraft X. He started to state that I can have a shop steward present. I told the supervisor that I can discuss this with the Chief Stewards present. Right now I am eating my lunch and then I will file a report and then I hung up the phone.Tonight; DATE; I wrote up log page X and reported this over the radio to the terminal lead. NAME1 stated nice try; that it was already written up. Sure enough; I had written this up back in month last year on log page Y. NAME2 had deferred it; but minimized the damage to the door stop. I call Terminal Lead NAME to have him look for an ECRA (Engineering Change Request  Authorization) that was created for this kind of wear. Supervisor NAME3 called me and asked me to come and see him. I told him I was oiling Aircraft Y and then I had to oil Aircraft Z. So I let the supervisor know that I was working other items.He called me again 10 or 15 minutes later and I re-positioned to his office after oiling Aircraft Z. Manager NAME4 was there. NAME3 wanted me to sign off the item because I had already written that up in the past. I said the item was deferred for the paint; not the door stop. NAME3 was saying that I purposely wrote this up again; that I had written up other Aircraft for which an ECRA was issued. He mentioned that I had brought up Aircraft X during that time and I replied I did not recall that this was the Aircraft. So much time had passed. NAME3 was saying I do not get it; I am the only one that does not get it. Not sure what he was implying with that REMARK as I was reading the SRM (Structural Repair Manual). The SRM [procedure]  had nothing to do with the door stop I told him. NAME3 was saying why did I write this up without looking first or calling. NAME3 was yelling at me throughout most of this encounter and NAME4 just signaled him with his hand to tone it down after a while.. I told NAME4 that he is just sitting here and allowing NAME3 to speak to me this way. NAME4 stated that he was listening to both of us. I was not yelling; but trying to defend myself against his attack; because that is what NAME3 was doing. NAME4 said we have 20 minutes before departure. I told NAME3 if that was the way he spoke to his kids; because I not his kid. I told NAME3 that he does not speak to anyone else that writes stuff up. NAME and said I do to get it. NAME3 kept saying that Maintenance approved the previous deferral and that this was not a safety of flight issue. As I was looking at the SRM; NAME3 said when this is over I am going to have to get a Shop Steward and that I need to call the Shop Steward. I told him that he wants a Shop Steward; then he should make the call. NAME4 reminded me that we do not have much time before departure. I said I would call Maintenance and speak to my Lead. Before I walked out the door; I told NAME3 that he wanted me to only write up one engine instead of 2 engines that were bad. I said that was a flight safety issue and that he was a hypocrite and walked out. This was referring to the day he wanted me to write up defects I found for one engine and not both engines on a B-767. I ended up writing both engines and grounding the plane.We should not have to get pressured into signing something off like that or spoken to like this for doing your job.
This [Report] is filed to report FAA violation.Aircraft X arrived ZZZ with pilot report on Log A for #1 ENG reverse thrust. Per turnover; began to apply MEL card XX-XX-X and started procedure. Maintenance step; lists special tools and materials needed to comply with this MEL procedure. There are two MRG part numbers listed in this MEL with issues;(1) the electrical cap MRG P/N XXXXXX (M/E XX-XXXX-X-XXX) listed is system wide and has never been bought before! So you cannot comply with an MEL procedure. The MEL card does not give any alternate part number so contacted Engineering for relief and was denied; Engineering cannot issue an [Engineering Order] to deviate from MEL. (2) CORD MFG P/N XXXXXY does not even break to M/E part number! A further research on line came up with MFG P/N XXXXXXZ which breaks to M/E XX-XXXX-X-XXXY. Can you see the difference in MFG part number? Look at it closely... Mel card is missing one digit in front of X in MRG P/N. Now the questions is does the MEL want you to use MRG P/N XXXXXY listed? If so; this part has never been bought; stocked or breaks to M/R part number then you cannot comply with the MEL procedure. Or is it a typo error in MEL omitting from the MFG part number? not sure?There were other issues like helicoil damage and wrong markings on outboard T-R sleeve; etc; etc.;..will not go into details but see LOGS Y; Z; A; B; C and D for more information.Also see Report XX for deactivation markings in wrong location on same aircraft on same engine.Aircraft taken out of service for permanent repair since unable to comply with MEL procedure as written.
Aircraft X returned to field. Changed #2 engine fuel pump. Following day was told Aircraft X returned to ZZZ due to a fuel leak.
I was working in Hangar X and when [I] finished my job on another airplane; the lead told me to help those guys putting on the jack. The guy working there told me to [get] the jack pad that was on the table. I grabbed one of the two pads in the box and installed it to the airplane with the hardware attached to the pad in the left wing side.
I was starting an afternoon overtime shift and was asked by Supervisor on duty to look into a tooling situation that resulted in a fuel leak on Aircraft X. We have 1 Airbus jack pad kit at ZZZ; kit PN XXXXXXXXXXXXX PC # XXXXXX. This kit was checked out on date for use on Aircraft X. I discovered that the kit contained 2 jack pads: 1 for each wing and 6 attach bolts; although only 2 bolts are used on each jack pad. I discovered that 3 of the bolts were approximately 2.5 inches in length and the remaining 3 were 2 inches in length. The jack pad identified for the left hand side had 2 of the 2.5 inch bolts secured in the transport holes of the adapter while the right hand side jack pad had 2 of the 2 inch bolts secured in the transport holes. In reviewing the Aircraft Maintenance manual it appears that the hardware included in the kit is not what originally came with the kit. The Aircraft Maintenance manual drawing depicts a fastener with a cable or wire strap that secures it to the pad and appears to have a special shape to the barrel of the bolt.It appears that a Technician installed the pad using the longer hardware supplied in the kit that damaged the dome nut resulting in the fuel leak.
Working ZZZZZ; had an ETOPS check that I was doing on Aircraft X at Gate XX. While doing that ETOPS check; I was called that Aircraft Y was coming to my gate GATE YY and the ETOPS would be done. The O2 was lower than the ETOPS limits and needed serviced. NAME and NAME1 were box and said they would help with it. They would bring over the bottles because I did not have a tug to pull the O2 cart. After Aircraft X was completed; I went to Aircraft Y as NAME and NAME1 pulled up and told them I would pull the CB listed MM XX-XX-XX-XXX-XXXX. After I pulled the breaker; I went in the E&E with NAME to shut off the bottles; we did a countdown and closed bottles at the same time. Needed the adapter for the service; had to run inside to the snap on box in the tool area of T1 for that. They proceeded with disconnecting lines and I gave them the service hose; with everything hooked up and communication was given I began as needed to open bottles to begin filling. With the okay to raise pressure aircraft bottle was roughly 1450; I had the service bottle around 1;550 PSI at highest point and before we could do anything else NAME and NAME1 came scrambling to get out; I immediately closed the bottle being used to service aircraft and with smoke seen we called control for the fire department.
Aircraft X arrived at ZZZ with scheduled workload on right wingtip scimitar for a once each flight inspection. After looking at all the paperwork; noticed that a lightning strike inspection had not been performed even though it was documented that the aircraft had sustained a lightning strike and written up by the flight crew. Technician documented that aircraft had sustained a lightning strike with documented pictures and M/C was aware. Lightning strike phase 1 inspection was never performed Per Aircraft Maintenance Manual and no dip was created to perform a phase 2 inspection. Upon notifying supervisor and M/C; it was determined the aircraft flew illegally for 2 days and was taken out of service immediately. Ref logs X; Y; Z; for details. Upon lightning strike inspection; found additional damage. See log for details.
In early-mid DATE; I was sent to ZZZ1 to ZZZ2 our airplane after its nose gear collapsed while tied down. I inspected it and made necessary repairs to ferry it back to ZZZ3. After repairs were made; I didn't believe we needed a ferry permit. I also did some minor maintenance to the right engine. I did not have the logbooks with me in ZZZ1. The airplane was flown back to ZZZ3 uneventfully and was put in the shop for engine changes and other maintenance and I simply forgot to follow up with the logbook entries. I have since made the appropriate entries. The oversight was discovered during a routine visit by the FSDO personnel. I returned on a weekend and several days passed and I simply forgot to follow up with the logbook entries since the airplane went in for maintenance at home base soon after arrival. I don't normally forget but this time I did. I'll pay better attention in the future; maybe even take the logbooks with me; if possible.
Aircraft XI received a turnover from 1st shift on Aircraft X. The left inboard fuel tank plate was leaking. Access door XXXXX opening. When I removed the interior plate the rubber gasket was stuck to the inside of the wing structure and had a 5 inch strip of cracked and dry sealant that to me was the cause of the leak. I installed a new gasket IAW with the AMM and installed the plate. Leak check was good when fuel was transferred into the center tank. I signed off the job on log page X.I have not replaced many fuel panels. I had confirmed the tank hole for the write up but was unaware that the plate number for the opening should be confirmed to match.(The AMM does not suggest this.) I realized this after the aircraft came back with the same issue. I had indexed the plate on removing it so it would not be reinstalled incorrectly. Unfortunately the wrong plate was installed previously and I did not catch it on the reinstallation. The index point (door key) was deformed previously so the tank seemed to fit with no hesitation. In my limited experience if a plate is installed incorrectly the then the door key will not let you place the plate in the cavity.  It appears  the plates for XXXXX and XXXXY were switched at a previous installation. (It was found that the other wing had the same for the two innermost tank plates - XXXXZ and XXXXA) I also found that the plates with fuel sticks have a decal in front of the plate as well. Again not referenced to check this in the AMM. I will be suggesting a tech ops training video on fuel tank removal and reinstallation techniques for our various fleet types at The Company. I had looked while performing the job and there is not one referencing this. I will also be following the fuel pressurization procedures to the letter- as opposed to the 'Norm' of simply filling the tank and checking for leaks. I would say the dirty dozen aviation maintenance gotchas on this would be lack of knowledge; lack of resources; pressure and norms. I've learned not to assume any part was put into an aircraft correctly by a previous Technician.
It has been brought to my attention from all day shift and some night shift AMTs working the terminal operation that Management having the AMTs reuse passenger oxygen masks back into service by following TASK. Also ref (subject Oxygen System Components Cleaning) helps show all required equipment and chemicals used to clean Oxygen Components in which this station is not ready with to sanitize Masks. As I and the AMTs read the TASK is more for cleaning portable oxygen system and components from dust and not intended to sanitize the used oxygen Masks. At briefing one supervisor (NAME) gave the TASK for reference to the AMTs to follow cleaning procedure. The other supervisor (NAME1) walked into the ready room at the terminal with a box full of used disposable oxygen masks and told the AMTs to clean masks for reuse. These AMTs told him they are not in the medical cleaning department and would not do as requested in a group. I was told so the Supervisor did the cleaning himself then had to look for bags to place the cleaned masks in.
Per work scope Hub was not repairable. Part was sent to vendor to repair per work scope. I inadvertently did not write on repair tag not repairable. Illustrated Parts Catalog Hub was sent for repair and nothing was flagged by [Manufacturer] repaired; since the part had an 8130 remaining [Manufacturer] overhauled part. When the part came back to the Company nothing was flagged that the part was unserviceable. Receiving Inspector made part serviceable because nothing in system told him it was not repairable. Also on log Inspector was able to on log the part with nothing signaling him not to on log part. Afterwards the module was built and made serviceable and on logged to engine with nothing flagging the part as unserviceable.
Technicians changed the outboard T/R half of the #2 engine. They and I neglected to notice that this T/R was set up for a #1 engine inboard T/R. Several attached panels needed to be removed from the sleeve.
On or around DATE; Aircraft X returned to ZZZ after completing survey work. It was noted that the LH engine had an oil leak near the alternator. After cleaning the engine and performing a visual inspection; a dye penetrant inspection was conducted which revealed a crack a little over an inch located on the upper crankcase behind the alternator. The aircraft was removed from normal survey use to await replacement of the engine with an overhauled engine that had previously been ordered as a spare. One of our IAs remembered a service bulletin regarding repair of cracked crankcases. The service bulletin was associated with AD 77-XX-XX XX. If the case could be repaired; then the aircraft could be used to survey storm damage near ZZZ until the replacement engine arrived. The crack was repaired IAW section (c)(1) of the AD. We then determined it would be better if the alternator was removed so that the repaired area would not be stressed. The POH; 91.205; and the TCDS for the aircraft and engine were checked and nothing was found that would prevent operation in this configuration. A blocking plate was installed; the alternator circuit breaker was pulled and collared; the field fuse was removed; and a new weight and balance was calculated. The surveys can only occur during the day; so it was decided to restrict the aircraft to daytime VFR since the POH required electrical load to be maintained at less than 80% of the functional alternator.After FAA Aviation Safety Inspectors visited our location to perform OJT with logbooks from some of our aircraft and asked about the repair on Aircraft X; additional research found that a Master Minimum Equipment List exists for this aircraft and did not allow this configuration. The aircraft was immediately grounded and NAME was notified of the mistake. The alternator and drive coupling were replaced with new units to restore the aircraft to its original configuration. The aircraft will not be put back into service until the replacement engine has been installed. Maintenance entries for the work performed were not placed into the logbooks or signed. It had been the practice of the company to work off discrepancy/corrective action work sheets and then create a handwritten draft of the maintenance entries before storing them digitally onto computer or iPad until the aircraft was preparing to leave Maintenance at ZZZ. Before the aircraft would return to survey work away from home base; all the maintenance entries would be printed; signed; and placing into the appropriate logbooks. This was done to condense/compile all the maintenance entries - all entries would be organized and entered at the same time. The maintenance entries for Aircraft X were updated on DATE1 after the mistake was discovered.The main factor involved is lack of assertiveness. After I was shown the POH and checked the TCDS for the engine and airframe; I relied on the judgement and knowledge of the IA. I had once checked a Master Minimum Equipment List for a King Air at my previous job but was not aware that they existed for the T310R. I should have gone beyond 91.205 to 91.213 which would have answered the question. In the future I will trust in my own judgement and ability to research the FARs.
On Date; [a] lockout tagout was performed for a flap change. Gear pin installation was required for lockout. A coworker installed the gear pins and I documented all lockout tagout for flap change. [On] Date 2; lockout for flap change needed to be reversed. My coworker removed the gear pins. I witnessed him returning gear pins to where they go in the cockpit. I did not verify how many he had. I looked at main gear and nose gear to verify no flags remained. I did not see flags on main or nose gear. I signed off reversal of lockout for flap change; which included gear pins being removed and signed off.[On] Date 3; I was notified of an air turnback for Aircraft X for MLG not retracting. I notified my coworker of this and he said he was not aware there were 5 gear pins on the 767 and he only removed 3. He said he did not see flags for other gear pins also. The gear pins were missed by the Mechanic who departed the aircraft as well as the pilot who did the walkaround. My assumption is storms in the area [on] Date 1 possibly blew gear pin flags to a position where they were not visible.
I was assigned Aircraft X that had been here for the weekend. I reviewed the log book back to the day the aircraft arrived. I noted that gear pin installation had been written up and the corrective action of removing the gear pins had been signed off. Once arriving at the aircraft I walked around it before beginning my assigned tasks and did not see any gear pins. Before departure time the Captain performed his preflight inspection and he did not see the gear pins. At departure time my partner completed a final walk around while I watched from the nose gear area and he did not see the gear pins. After the aircraft did an air turn back we discovered pins installed in the forward holes of the left and right main landing gear. I can only assume the streamers had been wrapped around the gear links due to the windy conditions we had been experiencing; therefore none of us saw the streamers hanging.
Aircraft X. Date. ZZZ-ZZ1. Crew contacted myself in m/c after receiving a #1 IDG (Integrated Drive Generator) caution while on take off roll. Crew stated abort was at about 40 knots; after power reduction the #1 IDG/GEN message cleared. Reviewing GMM (General Maintenance Manual) XX-XX it was determined that the event did not qualify as an ODI (oerational difficulty incident) as the thrust levers were not advanced to the takeoff position. Discussed with crew on ability to perform a test of the IDG at an advanced power setting to see if the message returned; crew agreed and the test was performed with no faults reported. Since no QRH (Quick Reference Handbook) or reset action was performed it was agreed that this could be documented as a transient anomaly (information only logbook documentation) per FOM.  Aircraft departed ZZZ-ZZZ1 and received same message on climb out - crew elected to continue to ZZZ1 where the a/c was taken out of service and ultimately the #1 IDG was replaced due to low oil. Event was brought to my attention by my manager due to an ongoing review due to a pilot report of the event. #1 IDG/GEN caution due to potential low oil qty.
I own and operate a FAA repair station. I was performing an annual on a Cessna P210. The left hand fuel drain for the header tank under the pilots flooring had been dripping. I was able to remove the faulty quick drain with the fuel valve in the off position. I noted fuel continued to flow into the bucket as I inserted a plug to stop the flow. I realized that I needed to defuel the left hand wing to chase the threads of the header tank and repair or replace the faulty valve. I placed another bucket on a ladder under the left  hand wing tank. I removed the wing drain safety wire. I pushed over the defuel pallet container that the buckets of fuel would later be poured into. I decided to remove the wing drain valve and begin filling the bucket while I went to get a jumper cable to ground the defueling pallet to the aircraft. In that moment I reached over to set the wrench and removed valve on the defuel pallet container to free my hands to go get the jumper cables. A fire ball/explosion occurred. I ran to get a fire extinguisher; it did suppress the flames below the aircraft/wing but the stream of ignited fuel pouring out of the wing draining continued to reignite as what ever I had contained. When the extinguisher was empty there was a secondary fireball and I left the shop. The hanger door was open (about 4-5 foot; Bifold type door) to the north with airflow coming in. As I exited the hanger I hit the 'open' door to raise it up. Fire department arrive extinguished fire. Aircraft was a total lost. Hanger severely damaged. I had minor injuries/burns. In reflection of this event. The day was a windy day; static discharge seemed more likely. I began fueling into the bucket as described before grounding the defueling pallet to the aircraft. I am questioning it that would have prevented this explosion because the fuel was not being poured in the defuel pallet. I have never grounded a bucket in 43 years of aircraft maintenance; but consider it would be wise. I am under the belief that a shop should have a 6 foot copper grounding rod connected to a grounding cable as a main ground. As a FAA CRS I have never been asked if I had one; nor discussed if it is required feature to shop defuel ops. Bonding the bucket(s); aircraft; defuel pallet; ground rod; And the defuel person really seems like the safest way in higher static environments that are out of your control. The following be done before any fuel work as judgment and situation dictate.
Picked up from Task Card; they had completed the health check on #1 Eng. I disconnected the test equipment #1 Eng; connected a plug and a cap. Went to #2 Eng; performed health check . Then late in shift it was decided to do power runs on both engines. I proceeded to close both engines. I looked over both engines before closing; nothing looked out of the ordinary. I was working log items X and Y. I did not perform engine runs or final checks. When aircraft landed in ZZZ the following day #1 Eng Reverser did not deploy. Aircraft proceeded without incident. #1 Engine Reverser was found locked out for maintenance. No warning flag installed.
After replacing an overwing slide on Aircraft X; the aircraft was headed to the gate and at some point the door covering the overwing slide came unlashed. It was found to be unlashed at the gate. I had replaced the slide and was finishing up with inspection on Work Card XXXX-XXXX-XX. We had a hard time at first closing the door; but when it latched it was flush. The latch mechanism on the inside is very hard to see. Besides it being flush I tried to pull on the door to make sure it wouldn't open. I felt it was properly installed per the Work Card.
The #1 engine was replaced in ZZZ1. Shortly after installation and a successful check flight; there was a torque split in cruise and ITT (Intermediate Turbine Temperature) issues. The ITT issues were fixed and the TQ split was being troubleshot every day. There were no spare aircraft and it was impressed upon the ZZZ1 maintenance crew and myself that this aircraft must be up every night to not miss a run. The original plan was to change the HMU (Hydro Mechanical Unit) but the part was lost in transit from ZZZ to ZZZ1. I was asked by the director of maintenance what can we do to get this aircraft up and ready. My response was to send the spare aircraft (Aircraft Y) from ZZZ to ZZZ1 so Aircraft X could properly be worked in ZZZ1 with more experienced mechanics. That plan was rejected. I looked up a fuel pump on the System portal. There are quite a few listed with different effectiveness (Example: A; B; C; D; AB; ABC; ABCD; etc.) I confirmed and verified a P/N with Maintenance Control and the ZZZ1 mechanics did the same. Ultimately the wrong effectivity was installed. I am the ZZZ/ZZZ1 Hub Manager and was working from ZZZ at the time of this incident.
On DATE; at approximately XA:00; I was working Task Card X; which requested a read and record of the PT25 sensors on both the #1 and #2 engine. To accomplish the task I had to remove and reinstall the fan duct panel associated with the sensors. Work was completed that day. I was notified by a co-worker that a discrepancy had been found as the removal and reinstallation of the panels is an ETOPS Significant task. The aircraft was undergoing a ground verification to assure compliance. The request issued for the read and record does not denote that the task is ETOPS Significant and it was a single card requesting accomplishment on both engines; resulting in an instance of Dual Maintenance.
While servicing the #2 engine IDG it was noticed that the engine driven pump depressurization valve cannon plug was disconnected.
I was helping replace a #1 Engine backup Generator filter change for outbound ZZZ; Aircraft X. I left for a brief moment to obtain more tooling when I was informed by the Tech's working the aircraft the ladder was wedged under the engine. I checked the area with my flashlight and seen no visible damage. I proceeded about getting a jack and slightly jacked the left main gear until the ladder was free. I did a visual check of the area and noticed no visible damage with my light other than the scratch on the controller housing. The flight crew asked if we were ok with the area and verbally told them from what I can see everything look good. I proceeded helping finish the filter change and removed all the lotto tags from the flight deck and lower avionics compartment.
Aircraft X departed from hanger ramp on a ferry flight from ZZZ to ZZZ1 and returned after takeoff due to unable to pressurize due to equipment access door being left open. As the lead in charge of the Dispatch I assigned two new hires to Dispatch the aircraft when crew ready to go. So there was no door check performed prior to Dispatch by us the Maintenance Team and I found out today that flight crew also did not do a door check or walk around of aircraft and did not notice the overhead warning light on prior to Dispatch. I take responsibility for not making sure that the Mechanics I assigned to Dispatch the ferry flight were to do a walk around checking all doors for security.
During preflight crew noticed ELEC light illuminated called Maintech; no other faults or messages noted. Ran through the STBY POWER TEST with the Captain; light did not extinguish. Went through the Maintenance procedures with the Captain for MEL 241-6-A. Not realizing the ELEC light was to be extinguished per the MEL; I applied the MEL and released the aircraft. It was discovered by The Captain who I applied the MEL with that the light per the MEL should have been extinguished (OFF) or inoperative; not on. Static Inverter was found failed and changed at the next station; incorrect MEL has been cleared.
It was brought to my attention that Job Card #XXXXXXX and Job Card #YYYYYYY had their contents swapped and modified out in the field. I inducted both Job Cards as new tooling. Job Card #XXXXXXX recently came due for calibration so [it] was returned to the calibration shop. For this Job Card; this was the first calibration since it was newly inducted into the system. In the process of doing a visual inspection prior to sending it to the vendor; it was discovered that someone combined parts of this kit with the other Job Card mentioned above. Whoever did the swapping was unqualified and did not follow our Calibration SOP nor our General Maintenance Manual for tooling. What was on the box did not match what was in [the System]. In addition; when they changed items around; they left the Maintenance and Engineering # the same; which was classified as NON-DG; but a lithium battery pack was added to the contents. No documentation was done in the changing of these kits. I have researched and cannot find out WHO went into [the System] and changed the contents. Of course; the last person that made this kit serviceable was me and they left my name and number on the calibration of this kit. In my research I have found so many errors that I am unable to mention all of them.After the research I have done; I have SEVERAL MAJOR concerns:Lithium Batteries. We use Maintenance and Engineering numbers to alert the presence of lithium batteries; which make that specific tool DG. If someone is able to change kit contents and add batteries to a kit without changing the Maintenance and Engineering number; then lithium batteries will be put in the belly of aircraft. DG tooling has made it very difficult to move tooling around quickly. This has created an atmosphere where people are trying to skirt around making tools DG even when they have lithium batteries.The Tooling Department seems to be losing the control strings on the kit management of our tooling. There is no visibility on WHO can go into [the System] and modify kit contents. The control strings are being loosened at the same time that there is NO TRANSPARENCY! Still; there is a lack of understanding of the importance of proper procedures when it comes to tooling and test equipment. I am using my A&P License to verify and certify test equipment; just like base / line mechanics are signing off aircraft log books. DG is here to stay and we should not be trying to MANIPULATE batteries into kits. If a tester has to have a battery to operate then it is DG! END OF STORY![A suggestion is to provide] education on tooling and test equipment. It has to start with Management in Maintenance and the Inspection departments. Again; I think a yearly CBT for all of Maintenance and Inspection and Tooling departments. Giving them the awareness of what goes into the certification and calibration of aircraft tooling. Give the Tooling Department back their control and allow them to police who is able to modify kit contents.
What happened: Captain's seat installed in the First Officer's position; in ZZZ; Date.
On DATE at approximately XA:00 a log page was generated on Aircraft X regarding an attrition liner repair that was coming apart. An AMT was asked to measure the damage and take a few pictures of it. While performing the tasks; the man lift truck the AMT used to get to the aircraft rolled in the #2 engine fan cowl causing a small crack that did not penetrate through the inner portion of cowl. The Engine Controller generated an additional log page to inspect the engine per AMM (Aircraft Maintenance Manual) XX-XX-XX-XXX-XXX-X. Working through the AMM we opened the fan and thrust reverse cowls and inspected the items listed. Paragraph 2A says 'if you find damage' then do some additional steps. No damage was found so no additional steps were performed. We closed the open cowls and returned the aircraft to service. A few hours later I participated in a conference call with NAME and another gentleman asking for clarification on the work performed. I stated that we did not perform the additional steps because of the 'if you find damage' statement. Shortly after the call the aircraft was grounded to complete inspection.
On Date I was assigned to work a discrepancy and install the L/H MLG door on Aircraft X. I accomplished the install of the door and the actuator. I contacted inspection to see if they wanted to see anything on the install. I was informed by inspection that only the gear to door and door to fuselage clearances is the only thing that requires RII buy back per maintenance manual. These clearances are checked during landing gear swings as per the AMM.'Do a check of the main landing gear door (1) for fair as follows)Use the door manual handle to slowly retract the main landing gear door. Do a check of the clearances as the door closes. Make sure the door edges touch the door jamb and the door fairs with the fuselage.' I verified myself in the GMM of what I was informed and made the conclusion that the maintenance I performed did not require an RII sign off. I copied and pasted from the GMM the RII requirements for chapter 32 landing gear. This section does not mention door or door actuator installations.ATA 32 - Landing Gear: Landing gear assemblies (main; center; and nose) include the re-installation or reconnecting including clearance and torque checks. For the purpose of this table; the shock strut and shock absorber are considered landing gear assemblies.1. Drag strut; 2. Side strut; 3. Truck beam; 4. All components of normal and alternate; retraction; extension and locking (Does not include installment of hydraulic line/lines or warning systems that do not disturb rigging.); 5. Gear to door and door to fuselage clearances; 6. Strut repack when inner cylinder is removed.Any cable installment associated with any gear; or gear door normal or alternate extension; retraction or locking; Nose wheel steering control cable (during nose landing gear (NLG) major assembly installation only). Better general awareness of RII requirements is recommended.
Aircraft X over-nighted in ZZZ on Date. The aircraft has a job card to remove cargo smoke detector in the aft position. Name was the technician assigned to this task. We later realized that despite the fact that smoke detector was removed from the inventory software; it was later realized that its still physically installed on the aircraft and it's overdue. The manager regulatory compliance called me and also sent an email with all the paperwork.On the night the aircraft over-nighted Name came to me after the task that he could not do the remove/replace transaction in inventory software. I helped him with the transaction by the information on the job card. I did not physically look at the smoke detector removed to have known that he removed the wrong one. And it was a busy night as usual and could not exactly recalled all that happened apart from just doing the transaction in inventory software. The manager; regulatory compliance; was the one that called to inform me that the smoke detector removed was still physically installed on the aircraft. That the aircraft had to be taken out of service to remove the correct smoke detector since it was already overdue. I told him I will try to remember as much as I can on the event. All I could remember was doing the transaction in inventory software. It is a good practice to physically make sure that the parts have been removed/installed on aircraft and are in the right position.
On DATE; myself and another technician were tasked with a CAT (Category) II functional check on Aircraft X. Both of us worked on setting up for the task and going over the steps for the functional check. After the functional check; both of us removed the equipment that was needed for the check. I didn't install the static-port screws into the static ports; but assumed that the other technician did. The other technician wasn't signed off on the CAT II functional check; so the two of us stamped all the blocks of the work card.On Date 1; I was notified that the static port screws weren't installed. I will insure that this issue doesn't happen again by verifying the aircraft condition before stamping the work card. Also; I think this issue can be eliminated by making the removal of the air-data kit; a RII (Required Inspection Item) item; for this work card.
This [report] is filed to report FAA violation.On walk around found right pack exhaust diffuse installed incorrectly; causing the fan bypass check valve to stay open.
Supervisor NAME assigned me to have my crew refuel Aircraft X. After refueling to 12;000 pounds; (6;000 pounds in each wing); a fuel leak developed in the area of the L1 outboard engine feed pump fairing. I instructed my crew of mechanics to transfer all fuel to the right wing immediately. Supervisor NAME1; who was not in charge of the aircraft; told mechanic NAME2 to wait to open the right wing fuel valves and instructed mechanic NAME3 tighten the bolts which hold the cover plate on. I knew that this was ill advised and would not stop the running fuel leak. I immediately went up to the cockpit and initiated the fuel transfer procedure; while instructing mechanic Told NAME3 to open the right wing refuel valves and transfer switch at the fuel panel. After all fuel was transferred to the right wing; I shut off electrical power and instructed the mechanics to sump the fuel tank per the AMM (Aircraft Maintenance Manual); which also references the proper safety procedures. The supervisor attempted to circumvent the Crew Chief by leading and directing mechanics and stopping the transfer of fuel from the leaking tank. Supervisor NAME1 should be aware the proper fueling safety precautions to avoid placing mechanics in a dangerous situation; let alone risking damage to the aircraft should a fire occur. Supervisor NAME1 should not intervene in areas of which he has inadequate knowledge and experience. Supervisor NAME1 should not lead and direct mechanics-that is the job of the Crew Chief.
When using bleed air from APU or engines with pack on there is a strong smell of exhaust. Event was in flight; base manager informed me.I do not know why a leaking 'O' ring from the APU FCU (Fuel Control Unit) would cause a exhaust smell in aircraft.How does a leaking 'O' ring on the APU FCU contribute to exhaust smell in aircraft? Followed procedures in AMM. New 'O' rings installed where called out. Leak Check was performed and no leaks were noted. No Human Factors were involved. All procedures were followed per AMM.
Aircraft X arrived in ZZZ with a pilot write up for #2 Full authority Digital Electronic Control (FADEC) ALTN followed Quick Reference Handbook (QRH) procedures and no help. Upon troubleshooting found multiple flight legs showing faults in both EEC2A and EEC2B which would be cause for an OOS (Out of Service) event due to being unable to defer the FADEC. I relayed this information to my Supervisor and was asked to stay late and assist the other mechanics as I was the only qualified; eligible mechanic on the MD-11 that evening. I informed my Supervisor that I had a TDY in the morning and that I had to drive to my TDY location and would not be able to stay. I found that 2 mechanics Person A and Person B were forced to stay and replace a Relay that Maintenance Control believed to be the cause of the issue. I decided that I would stay and assist them with the engine runs as they were unfortunate enough to be forced incorrectly based on the rules which state the least senior mechanics on shift were supposed to be forced.Person A and Person B changed the relay and I performed the Engine Runs on #2; during the runs no faults were noted and after 5 mins I shut down the engine and checked for faults in EEC2A and EEC2B; only EEC2B showed a fault for 2.95 BLD which I informed my Supervisor of and upon him speaking with Maintenance Control we found this was a deferrable issue. During the process of signing the logbook; my Supervisor handed me the MEL required and said he was speaking with Maintenance Control about the deferral. Person A signed off the Replacement of the relay and began documenting the fault and MEL on the following step leaving blank the SOT for the Control Number once the MEL was called in. It was at this moment that my Supervisor informed us that the airplane was being placed OOS for a Possible HYD leak in the tail; this caused myself; Person A and Person B to speak up as to why then be forced to fix an issue that would cause the airplane to go OOS if he was going to put it OOS regardless. After this discussion with my Supervisor we all called fatigue and decided to leave and work the aircraft in the morning since it would be OOS and I would travel on TDY in the morning. During this time and lack of communication I failed to call Maintenance Control to document the MEL procedure and receive a control number for the MEL. After 2 days I received a phone call today; from the ZZZ NDA supervisor advising me that they were trying to impact the paperwork for Aircraft X and were unable to impact the MEL as there was no Control Number for it. I contacted Maintenance Control and explained to them what had happened and that I had dropped the ball by documenting the fault and corrective action but failed to contact them for the deferral; it was at this time that I was informed by Maintenance Control that due to me being on TDY at another gateway; I could not legally document the Deferral for an Aircraft in ZZZ; and it would have to be redone in ZZZ.
Aircraft X (King Air 350C) both inboard upper wing panels have voids/delamination. The aircraft was delivered on Date and has 328.7 hours when this delamination was found on both the left and right inboard upper wing panels.
I assigned Aircraft X to Name. Got a turn over from swings. There was a hydraulic line leaking through the rubber and swing shift could not find the temp line kit for hydraulic lines. My supervisor found the kit and we read the manual and I called Maintenance Control and we all thought we were good to go because it was not on the landing gear and or a fuel tank. We all missed the step that read refer to applicable AMM for specific restrictions; and per the NEO AMM XX-XX-XX-XXX-004-a said can't use temp line on engine pylon box structure etc. and all this took place in ZZZ.It occurred because we all misread the manual. My mistake can't blame anyone but myself. Other Airbus versions allow temp line in that area. I will be getting more people involved to make sure I do not miss anything like that. Maybe put a note to make it stand out better because when we read it we got focused on all good but for landing gear and fuel tank.
At XA:30; one hour before my shift was to end; my crew chief asked me if I could help run the engine on Aircraft X. The 3 mechanics that were on that aircraft had a transit check and a borescope. I was to run the aircraft after the borescope was completed to check for leaks on the drive pad. We conducted the leak check and no leaks were noted. We shut the engine off and I performed the operational check on the thrust reverser through the Multi-Purpose Control Display Unit. The test allowed me to deploy the Thrust Reverser but when I went to stow the Thrust Reverser it stowed almost fully closed and the test failed.I tried once more to repeat the process with the same result happening. The Thrust Reverser would extend but would not stow fully closed leaving roughly a 3 inch gap. The test failed again. We repeated the test a third time with the same result. It was at this time we decided to start the engine to give the force to fully close the Thrust Reverser. When we started the engine the engine created a large noise replicating the sound it makes when it goes to takeoff at which time I shut the engine off but not before the outboard fan cowl dislodged from the engine in a forward trajectory. I believe the above event caused an intense reverse airflow causing the outboard fan cowl to be dislodged from the engine. I take responsibility for the accident that happened; but other contributing factors happened as well. I was getting pressure from my crew chief who says he was getting pressure from the manager to complete the job before our shift ended. The event happened 13 minutes before the end of shift. I also felt there wasn't enough manpower provided; and I should and wish I had said and done something about it. I learned an immense amount of what I should have done and what I will do in the future.
On taxi out stab trim locked up and did not move electrically from either yoke; returned to gate. Initial inspection verified neither yoke switches would activate horizontal stab movement. Tried stab manual operation with stab wheels on center pedestal; would not turn more than one revolution in either direction. Checked forward nose compartment for any damage or debris in stab chain wheel mechanism and cables; none found. Checked in stab compartment to look for damage or debris; none found. Removed stabilizer trim motor ref AMM 27-XX-XX-XXX-XXX; and manually operated stab wheels full nose up and full nose down and back to green band with no binding or issues; operated normally. Installed new stabilizer trim motor ref AMM 27-XX-XX-XXY-XXX; accomplished stab trim motor test ref AMM 27-XX-XX-XXZ-XXX. Operations checked normal. I am expressing concern about this issue; due to what I found with the horizontal stabilizer not being able to be operated manually with a failed stab trim motor installed. I have never come across this issue before. My educated guess would be if the stab trim electric motor fails to operate electrically; the failed motor would not affect the manual operation of the horizontal stabilizer.
Performing a #2 service on Aircraft X; found door 2R emergency exit light assembly not installed. Further troubleshooting discovered the area had been panlamed over. Gained access to lower panel of aft galley and found wires dangling. Had to order new lite assembly to install and hook up wiring. Similar to Aircraft Y which had same problem 2 days earlier.
I was working a 2 Service on Aircraft X. A task card has me checking emergency lights. I noticed an emergency escape path lite inoperative at mid lav and documented it. The fix was the next shift found the wires capped and stowed so I do not know how long this went on being inoperative. I also made a separate report stating the emergency light assembly was not installed at door 1L with panlam covering the area where it should be. The wiring at that location was also capped and stowed.
During routine 2 service; found emergency exit marker not installed. Area covered by panlam.
Aircraft X flew from ZZZ to ZZZZ. Subsequent flight from ZZZZ to ZZZ; local time XA:12; jet bridge's canopy retracted and interfered the L1 door. Approximately 1 hour 30 minutes after the incident; Maintenance was notified after a Contract Maintenance accomplished the inspection and operational check of the L1 door in accordance with AMM XX-XX-XX; FORWARD ENTRY DOOR INSPECTION/CHECK. Per Contract Maintenance's statement; no door malfunctions noted and cockpit indications are good and no dent or fuselage damage noted. I was fixated on door operation and visual inspection only due to extensive maintenance delay without Maintenance knowing. As a result; I failed to advise the Contract Maintenance to perform further investigation; as per given AMM task 'GROUND HANDLING EQUIPMENT HITS AIRPLANE OR PART DEPARTS AIRPLANE' AMM task XX-XX-XY. Based on contractor's finding; I released the plane so it flew subsequent flight to ZZZ. However; once Aircraft X arrived to ZZZ; the abnormal door movement was noted by Gate Agent; and ZZZ Maintenance found damage in the upper hinge on L1 door. After 6 days; I noticed I forgot to ask contractor to perform 'GROUND HANDLING EQUIPMENT HITS AIRPLANE' AMM task.I felt pressure on time as customers are already boarded while I was communicating with the Contract Maintenance.Maintenance should be the first point of contact; as Maintenance related discrepancy or aircraft damage occurred; so the event information could be shared among the Maintenance Control department. Therefore; it possibly creates redundancy while minimizing delays.
I arrived on shift on Date at XA PM for our unscheduled engine change on Aircraft X. after clocking in; I walked to the airplane to verify documentation had been generated and what all was left to accomplish prior to hanging the new engine on the aircraft [had been complied with]. I noticed that there was not a single non routine created to address the forward mount. Given that we consistently have issues with damage being found on the FWD engine mount; I went to look and found a large gouge on the FWD alignment pin hole. This item had been documented previously in Year under item XXXXXXX ref EAXXXXXXa. After reading through the documentation; I noticed a discrepancy with the reported information under the EA and the condition on the aircraft and generated item XXXXXXY for the new damage. The previous EAXXXXXXa does not reference the harsh edge left in the guide pin hole. Original documented damage was .150 into the hole; .080; and .335 around the circumference of the hole. The current conditions of the damage are .168 into the hole; .090 wide; and a circumferential length of .225 with a hole size of .858. Per SRM XX-XX-XX-XXX-XXX figure 5; a 40:1 blend ratio of the width of damage is required to be accomplished; and as such should have originally been documented as 3.2' long around the circumference of the hole. The total hole circumference is only 2.7' around. In order to remove a 40:1 blend out with the current dimensions; you would need a 3.7 inch circumferential chamfer.Additionally; there is cross section removal limit of .0039. the reported cross sectional removal limit was .006; and currently sits at .00756. This damage is out of limits per SRM and DOES NOT MATCH the data reported in the initial EA. The current damage as shown on the aircraft; the items with arrows are in limits per SRM; but have not been added to any EA technical document.Due to management pressures and consistent request for rushed engine changes; things can be missed. We are consistently being asked to overlook and reassess all the time. Given all the eyes on our station for engine changes (Aircraft X having an aborted takeoff on #2 engine after #1 engine change; Aircraft Y needing a fuel pump/HMU after lockup during start; and Aircraft Z requiring extensive fitting rework due to LESS damage than reported here; why we can allow this to go as 'previously reported damage' without the EA containing any mention of sharp edges left in the fitting hole is beyond me. Reduce management pressure on Technicians to ensure a safe and quality product is provided to our customers. People fly on our planes; and it is our job to correct any unsafe condition to the best of our ability. Reduce the number of unqualified mechanics working engine changes in our high stress environment. This is not a job that can be done by someone who has not had the experience of doing them. They will continue to misinterpret; miss document; and incorrectly perform maintenance when there is not someone there to guide them.
Captain reported aircraft was too hot to board passengers; conditioned air was INOP; and APU was on MEL; so he would refuse the aircraft unless he could reactivate the MELed APU briefly to cool down aircraft. I went out to talk to the Captain to get a clearer direction on what he wanted and he said he was going to turn the APU on to cool down the aircraft. We informed the Captain that the APU was on MEL for fire loop not testing and exhaust cone issues; and that would reactivate the APU from MEL. Maintenance Control was also trying to clarify whether this would even be possible without a fire watch. Went outside to APU to inspect and me being in Management; to call maintenance personnel for support; and control to figure out a course of action when I heard the APU fire up. No maintenance personnel was present in Flight Deck or Outside aircraft; no fire watch personnel was present; APU was placarded INOP; and MEL was complied with previously. I called my OM on duty to report this and see what steps I needed to take; or if he thought this was a compliance issue; and he told me it was out of our hands at that point as it had already been reactivated by the pilot. I then witnessed boarding of the aircraft with passengers (with a fire loop issue on APU) after the Controller told pilot he should not board passengers with the APU running that was deferred for that. Later the door was shut with APU still running; then APU was shut off and aircraft departed gate for flight. I feel the Pilot (whether it be the Captain or First Officer (FO) I cannot be certain) performed maintenance by reactivating a deferred item on MEL that could have caused a safety issue without maintenance or fire watch present. Maintenance was not asked to put APU back into placarded INOP status to continue to comply with MEL before aircraft departed. I felt I needed to report this; as I felt this was off compliance wise; and a grey area that I have not dealt with before. The Controller I was communicating with; including Operations felt the same way in communication with what was going on and with the Pilots.
This [report] is filed to report repeated failure of component. Aircraft X arrived ZZZ with #1 eng inboard and outboard t-r (Thrust Reverser) to pylon flex seal segments cracked-broken-missing.
On DATE; a tech contacted me to witness a pitot static system flush. After the flush was completed; the tech. Contacted me again to verify that the pitot static hoses in the forward cargo compartment; and the r/h and l/h nose tunnels were connected which I verified. All hoses were connected and secured at that time. However the cargo compartment ceiling panels were left open because several fasteners were missing. According to the tech. Write ups were made to close the panels at a later time. My verification was completed and I left the aircraft. On DATE1; I was informed by my foreman that a pitot static hose was not connected based on a picture taken. After trouble shooting in ZZZ. I am certain that the pitot static hoses were connected when I exited the pit on the date. As of that date I am not sure what other maintenance was accomplished. In the cargo area.
Aircraft X arrived ZZZ with ETOPS PDSC (Pre-departure Service Check). Noticed both NLG wheels missing hubcaps so began to look at paperwork and found AMM XX-XX-XY requires hubcaps to be installed added per ECRA XXXX-XXXXX. Logpage X was created for missing hubcaps. A further research showed that this ECRA XXXX-XXXXX was issued just 4 months ago on date requiring hub cap installation. Not only that; but this was updated in NLG wheel/tire remove/install AMM XX-XX-XY as a step to remove/install hubcaps. And also added AMM XX-XX-XY specifically for hubcap removal/install.So now there 3 documents showing hubcaps required; but no hubcaps are shown in [the maintenance program]! What a mess. Contacted engineering to clarify this confusing; misleading; conflicting; inadequate paperwork but did not offer resolution right away. Instead engineering suggested to defer per card XXXXXX which will give them more time to sort out; but it was denied by Maintenance based on the fact that hubcaps are not required since there is no TPMS on all B777-200 aircraft... Maintenance did not offer any documentation to justify this. But we have 3 documents showing hubcaps required.
Was assigned to work Aircraft X on Date. There were 46 discrepancies that eventually sent the aircraft out of service and sent to the hangar here in ZZZ. This same plane was scheduled for a C4 check on Date1 with zero discrepancies that I could find on the history. On Date2; Management arranged a meeting with my work partner Name to discuss what the cause of all the write ups were. During the meeting; with Union Representation present; Management suggested that they did not need to document anything they just wanted to know why we wrote up what we did and whether there was anything they could assist us with or anything that we needed from them to make our jobs easier. My work partner and I let them know that we had a plane that seemed neglected and we were just trying to fix it. After the meeting I felt a little confused as to why they decided to call us in. If anything I would think that they would want to call the C check mechanics who didn't find anything wrong with the plane. I don't know if Management is in the practice of having meetings with all Mechanics that have discrepancies and I have not heard of anyone else being called into question for doing their jobs. Which; in turn; seems to me like we are being singled out and this 'off the record' meeting could turn into being 'the tip of the ice berg'. I don't know if the meeting was an intimidation tactic to discourage us from creating non routine work and fixing discrepancies found on nightly checks.
Prior to departure a dent was found at forward fuselage ahead of the RVSM area on the First Officer side of the aircraft. The damage was inspected per Safety Risk Management and found to be within limits. The initial Safety Risk Management reference was good for the station but not the stringer. In rush to get the aircraft ready to fly; The review of table XXX of Safety Risk Management; It showed the area of damage and was read incorrectly. It showed the right station but the stringer was off by 1. The event occurred because I was under pressure of a live trip with passengers loaded and it was past departure time. Going forward I would disregard the pressure of a live trip and concern myself with proper maintenance procedure and pay attention to the details of manual references.
Near departure time; The flight crew called in that the Fwd E&E Door indicated open. I found the Fwd E&E Door upon my inspection. I cycled the forward plunger switch several times and then closed the door. The flight deck indication remained on. I placard the door warning light indication per MEL XX-XXA. After takeoff the aircraft would not pressurize and air interrupted back to ZZZ. The event occurred because both E&E Doors were left open for unknown reasons. The crew complaint was about the Fwd E&E Door. This became my main focus. To avoid this situation in the future i would do further troubleshooting and inspection and ignore the pressure of an on-time departure. For whatever reason the doors were open they should be closed.
At XA32 Company Operations called and requested line maintenance assistance on Aircraft X. I was told that; '...they are stuck on the plane; can't open the door and can't get out...'. I verified aircraft and location and called upon one AMT to assist. After some discussion and thought; I decided that I should evaluate and assist if necessary. As I approached the aircraft I could hear that the APU and packs were running and that the R1 door was open someone was partially looking out. The AMT I assigned to assist was already at the L1 door when I arrived. He was examining the door. As I ascended the mobile stairs I asked him to verify that the slide girt bar had not come dislodged. He said that he could see the girt bar. I immediately asked him to move so that I could better evaluate the situation. I saw that the girt bar was actually engaged in the spring sprawls/stops on the floor. I told the occupants to not touch anything and stay away from the door. I asked the AMT to move the airstairs to the other side to get the occupants out and I went to inform Operations that a Manager/Supervisor will be required because this may become an ISD (Inflight Service Difficulty). When I came back to the aircraft the AMT was ready to pull up to the right side of the aircraft and he informed me that he asked fleet service to bring another air stair. Both I and the AMT entered the aircraft through the R1 door. I took notice that the L1 door lever was in the up position and the arm/disarm lever was in the disarm position. I entered the flight deck to retrieve the safety pins for the door. Safety pin for the slide pack was on the slide. Safety pins were installed I handed my Leatherman to the AMT in case of an ISD (Inadvertent Slide Deployment) inside the aircraft. I proceeded to disengage the girt bar from the floor spring sprawls/stops. At this point I called another AMT to pull up AMM references to remove the slide. I asked the Fleet Service Agents what happened. One was training the other on how to brake ride the aircraft. I was given no information as to how the slide was engaged only that the Trainee was the one who attempted to open the L1 door. I called Name (ZZZ Maintenance Manager); ZZZ1 Supervisor/Manager; and Maintenance Control to apprise them of the situation. Once I got back to my desk; I submitted a request through maintenance online to remove Aircraft X from service; I printed out maintenance paperwork as well as Form Number for escape slide render safe checklist. I returned to the aircraft with two AMTs to remove the slide and free the door. Once the slide was removed we noticed that the door was still stuck and would not move. I suggested that maybe the door assist bottle may have been blown and we may need to leverage the door. The two AMTs worked that while I was answering phone calls from Maintenance Control; ZZZ Manager; and ZZZ1 Supervisor/Manager. The AMTs freed the door and it flung open. They also confirmed that the door open assist cylinder had been activated. All of this indicates that the L1 door was armed at the time one of the occupants attempted to open it. Proper and documented procedures were not followed by the occupants and it created a situation that could have caused damage to the airplane or themselves. Not to mention the inherent risk involved with the ensuing maintenance to safety and secure the slide.The Fleet Service personnel were inadequately trained and lacked experience in the necessary procedures to safely operate an Airbus door. Re-evaluation of the company's current policy that allows Fleet Service employees to actively conduct what has been traditionally known to be an Aircraft Maintenance or Flight Crew function.
Aircraft X had a maintenance set up to replace the left brake metering valve. I picked up from midnight shift with two hydraulic lines to install. I was the fourth AMT to work the valve replacement. B737 AMM step G (1)Leak check; (2)Gear retract braking actuator check; (4) Bleed the hydraulic systems. I installed the 2 lines; restored head pressure; and began the check out step G(1). Was working alone so after turning on A/B hydraulics was running up and down to make sure no leaks were present. No leaks; shut down and secured the aircraft. Went to work another AOS (Aircraft Out Of Service) aircraft. When I came back to Aircraft X; I continued the checkout step G(4) with the assistance of my Lead AMT; no leaks; I signed the logbook and returned to service. When Aircraft X took off; at gear up they lost A hydraulic fluid and came back. Step G(2) is also a leak check G(2)(e). Had I not missed that step I'm sure we would not have had an event. The leaking line had not even been tightened and looks like it was removed to assist the valve removal.
I was tasked with the re-installation of the flap track movable fairing XXXXX in accordance with 27-XX-XX-XX. I complied with the installation of flap track fairing XXXXX in accordance with 27-XX-XX-XX.After aircraft departed station. it was discovered that the right-hand number four carriage rod was damaged and not connected. Non-routine was generated to install right-hand carriage and canoe. Aircraft departed station ok for service.I would be more thorough and ensure I double-check my work to make sure it is done correctly.
On Day 1; at approximately XA:30; Crew Chief Person A informed me of the logbook discrepancies on Aircraft X. I signed the Airworthiness Release and stamped the final blocks of the service check for the aircraft; in order to put it into service and make its scheduled flight. I made several mistakes on this release. The first was forgetting to enter the Logbook Deferral Sheet number for Logbook Deferral Sheet XXXXXXX; LH Pack Flow Control Valve repair on compliance page XXXXXXX; which I had crossed out. This I was able to correct when the aircraft returned to ZZZ this morning. The second was for Logbook Deferral Sheet YYYYYYY; compliance page YYYYYYY - flashlight and cradle. For the Aircraft Maintenance Logbook deferral code block; I found it to be blank. Cross-referencing with the Job Card XXXXXX tally and log page job #5; I saw that the item was stamped deferred for parts NIS (Non Incident/Accident Statement) by Crew Chief Person B. I wrote in the deferral code MEL." Crew Chief Person B's turnover to me was that everything on the overnight maintenance was completed except for job #4; LH Pack Flow and job #7; closing of the service check. I then signed the Airworthiness Release and stamped the open blocks on the service check; tally; and the Airworthiness Release complete block on the overnight maintenance accountability report. This resulted in confusion for the Captain of [the] outbound flight; which resulted in a 95-minute delay.There were many factors contributing to my mistakes with the Aircraft Maintenance Logbook of Aircraft X on Day 0. I did not get a lot of sleep the night before. After I badged in at approximately XA:20 I went to the Crew Chief Office to get settled. I customarily ask the night shift crew chiefs if there are any potential turnovers. I find the Crew Chief turnovers to be more accurate; compared to Management's turnovers. Crew Chief Person B informed me that Aircraft X was being turned over with a LH Pack Flow Valve that needed to be worked; with the service check down to final. Then; Crew Chief Person C and I went to Production Control for our workload meeting with Management.We were assigned the following aircraft: Aircraft Y; bleed air fault 3-time repeat item; being worked by holdover overtime AMTs (Aircraft Maintenance Technician); Aircraft Z; LPC bleed and idle run; Aircraft A; Fan Air Valve Thermostat; being worked by holdover overtime AMTs; aircraft X; LH Pack Flow Valve; and Aircraft B; carpet non-routines. The crew was short 3 AMTs; Person D; Person E; and Person F; due to vacations and training. These AMTs were not backfilled. In addition; there was a field trip called for ZZZ1 in which AMTs Person G and Person H accepted. Now we were short 5 full shift AMTs. There was no holdover Crew Chief held in accordance with the JCBA (Joint Collective Bargaining Agreement). Article XX states that when 3 or more AMTs are on shift; that a Crew Chief will be maintained. Article YY states that holdover AMTs shall not be combined to cover known full shift overtime opportunities; but may be held to unplanned maintenance needs. There were 6 AMTs held over for Aircraft Y; Aircraft Z; and Aircraft A in which a holdover Crew Chief could have Lead instead of Crew Chief Person C and I trying [to] manage them; as well as our AMTs and aircraft. We had 3 aircraft to move and stage for Ramp to tow to the gate; and we had to double up on the manning for the crew. In addition; Aircraft B was added to my workload 2 hours after the start of my shift.Avionics was onboard working their items; while I deferred the remaining items. Management kept on coming into the Crew Chief Office asking for continual updates in order to keep updating [the] web-based system. They kept on asking for Aircraft X and when it would be ready to move. I usually do not allow the pressure to get to me but on that day; we were stretched thin and I started to feel the pressure to produce the aircraft. AMTs Person I and Person J were tasked with working Aircraft X; LH Pack Flow Valve. Management kept coming in asking if Aircraft X was ready for Ramp to take it. When the AMTs had successfully repaired the pack flow item; Management again asked if the aircraft can be moved. I replied that it was down to paperwork. Management then asked if Ramp could move the aircraft without the logbook; and that the logbook would be delivered afterward. This is a common occurrence at ZZZ; moving an aircraft without a logbook. There have been occasions where Ramp has moved an aircraft without approval from Maintenance. In this case; I relented and gave my approval for Aircraft X to be moved to the gate while the AMTs were completing their paperwork. The AMTs signed off their item in the logbook; Logbook Deferral Sheet XXXXXXX; non-routines; and job card #4. However; they did not enter their item into [the system]; nor did they call Maintenance Control to unlock the item so it can be cleared. I called Maintenance Control on their behalf and entered their item into [the system]. I was rushing; and this is where I forgot to write the Logbook Deferral Sheet number into the Aircraft Maintenance Logbook; on compliance page XXXXXXX.By now; Aircraft X was on the gate and the flight crew was asking for the logbook. Crew Chief Person K called me asking for the logbook; which was not ready yet. I briefly looked at the other sign-offs in the Aircraft Maintenance Logbook for Logbook Deferral Sheet YYYYYYY; compliance page YYYYYYY; and saw that the deferral code block was blank. This is where I quickly cross-referenced the Job Card XXXXXX tally and saw that job #5; Logbook Deferral Sheet YYYYYYY; was deferred. I checked the job card itself and saw that it was deferred for parts NIS at ZZZ. This is when I wrote in the deferral code "MEL" to correspond with the tally and job cards. The sign-off was confusing in the logbook and did not match the job card. It seemed to say something about 2 placards. The sign-off did not make sense. However; the tally showed 2 items deferred; job cards 5 and 6 were deferred; and there were 2 placards in the logbook. The placards were for "1L OTBD Flashlight INOP" and "L2 OTBD Seat INOP due to INOP flashlight." These were previous deferrals that apparently were not repaired. In the rush to produce the logbook for a timely departure; as well as managing the other aircraft; with a short-staffed day shift crew; as well as having to manage overtime AMTs; I failed to look into the confusing verbiage deeper. Signed off the Airworthiness Release; and Crew Chief Person C took the logbook down to the aircraft. Afterward; Crew Chief Person A was called out to the aircraft because the Captain was confused with the logbook. This occurred after I had ended my shift. Crew Chief Person A was also confused by the sign-off in the Aircraft Maintenance Logbook for Logbook Deferral Sheet YYYYYYY. He tried to sort it out and was under pressure because the crew was going to time out. He believed that amt name1 had forgotten to sign off Logbook Deferral Sheet ZZZZZZZ; if I understood him correctly; and transcribed his sign-off for Logbook Deferral Sheet YYYYYYY to ZZZZZZZ. Person A had no time to retrieve the pack from the hangar; before the crew timed out. The next morning Crew Chief Person A informed me of the events that transpired at the gate concerning Aircraft X's Aircraft Maintenance Logbook.The first thing that I must do is to pace myself and not give into pressure from Management. I should insist that Ramp not be allowed to move aircraft to the gate without the Aircraft Maintenance Logbook first being adequately reviewed; released for service; and placed on the aircraft. I should also insist on Management holding over an overtime Crew Chief for overtime AMTs. I need to make sure that I understand what has been written in the Aircraft Maintenance Logbook and if there are discrepancies; to not give into pressure and release the aircraft for service."
I was replacing a 10th stage solenoid valve. I am certain we verified that we had the correct part number on hand for the position we were installing. Unfortunately; we had 4 of the solenoid valves plane side. Valves for the 7th and 10th stage. Both parts look identical and their function/test is identical. One of us inadvertently grabbed the wrong valve from the 4 on hand and I installed it on the aircraft. I personally did the installation of the valve; even though the computer indicates my co-worker signed off the install. He was handling the paperwork portion of the job; while I closed up the aircraft. We divided these tasks to make our Estimated Time of Repair and get the aircraft back in service. He was there during the install and saw the work being performed; but it was my work and my responsibility to put in the correct valve.To sum this up; I installed a 7th stage solenoid valve in the 10th stage position. One of us just grabbed the wrong component and I installed it. We had the correct valve in hand; but being as they look identical; the wrong one was inadvertently put on.
I issued a MEL 21-XX-a and checked the history but it was not clear to me on what flight the MEL previously was closed in ZZZ. So it repeated on the next flight leg and i issued a new MEL but should have re-opened the previous MEL. Unclear in safe on what flight the MEL was cleared in ZZZ on date. System upgrade to avoid issuing a new MELfor an previously closed MEL.
While performing troubleshooting on Aircraft X for the right-hand core fire loop B side left screwdriver in the manual isolation valve handle for the right-hand thrust reverser actuation system.During the night of Date; I was assigned the troubleshooting of the right-hand core fire loop B the aircraft arrived at the gate at around XA30 before I started I got all the tools and parts I needed. When I got to work on the aircraft I disable the flaps and slats systems with gear from the LOTO box collaring any breakers as needed when I looked in the box I could not find the thrust reverser manual isolation valve lock out pin when I asked my lead he did not know where to get one so I used a screwdriver in lieu of the pin when I was finished with the core fire loop I closed the core cowls and the main cowls and removed all locks for the flaps and slat system forgetting my screwdriver in the manual isolation valve handle. I am deeply sorry for the incident and wish to apologize for the incident. If I was not in a rush to get back over to the hanger maybe things would have been different; I should have asked my supervisor for the correct location of the missing pin but I wish to make sure that this incident does not occur ever again. I'm sorry for the inconvenience I caused and I'm glad that no one got hurt.
Aircraft X arrived with APU duct pressure seal clamp not installed at aft bulkhead in wheel well keel beam. Aircraft goes out of service for a minimum of 4 hours anytime this clamp comes off. For more detailed info about duct design see previous reports.After further investigation it appears in most cases the clamp is being pushed off because of the bad design of the older style duct. Need to change out the older (bad design) duct. As long as the older duct is installed we will continue to have this issue when the clamp is not installed; or missing or comes off; it can lead to pressurization; air conditioning; cab temp control and overheating issues.  Overheat sensing element is located directly beside this pressure seal.  How will the overheat sensor ever work if cold air from the cabin is constantly being blown onto the sensor.  Suggest issuing fleetwide directive to inspect pressure seal clamp and verify duct part number installed. The bad duct manufacturer part X needs [to be] removed from all aircraft and install good duct manufacturer part Y.
When working Boeing 777; I encountered Drag Brace springs in pre pull kit are wound opposite of what was removed. Form 8130-3 has same part number for a wind counter clockwise and a clockwise wind. This seems like we have a problem that needs to be addressed. This is also a work process that is on the RII list and there is no QA block on pattern cards. We have determined the different springs are from different vendors and that the opposite wound springs could be out flying on multiple airplanes.
Aircraft X arrived at Gate XX at approx XA:30. Performed walk around of aircraft and found #2 MLG Brake Assembly worn. Took pictures for the wear pins and front wear pins area was dark placed flashlight above wear pin and took picture. Flashlight was not removed in error. Aircraft was released. Aircraft returned to Gate XX on air return for gear problem. I met aircraft at Gate upon arrival. When the aircraft was entering the Gate area reached down for my flashlight and it was not in my belt loop. At that moment I knew what had happened and it was my flashlight. When the aircraft shutdown; I went to the left gear and saw my flashlight in the uplock roller. I left the flashlight as found and went to find my Supervisor and Lead.
I was assigned an ETOPS with another AMT on Aircraft X on Gate XX. This was a change of equipment; and went from an XE PM departure to a XA PM departure. The aircraft was on Gate XX. I accomplished my walk around on aircraft (chocks were installed on aircraft). I went upstairs to the cockpit; to do the ETOPS portion of cockpit checks. When I checked hydraulic quantities; I noticed the center system was reading low; and the right system was high. On Boeing aircraft; a transfer procedure is allowed per the AMM. I began the process. When I released the brakes; all felt normal; I followed the procedure; set brakes and then I released the brakes again; and felt a jolt like someone hit the airplane. I later learned that the move crew; without my knowledge removed the chocks; prepping the airplane for a move. The aircraft had damage to the L2 door.
Aircraft X arrived with apu duct pressure seal clamp not installed at aft bulkhead in wheel well keel beam. Aircraft goes out of service for a minimum of 4 hours; anytime this clamp comes off. For more detailed info about duct design see previous reports.
I was notified that Aircraft X's left hand prop cable was found detached from prop governor after an attempted flight. Previously; I was involved in performing a engine vibration isolation mount change on the left hand engine of Aircraft X. In the process of mount replacement we are required to hook up a engine hoist to relieve weight on the mounts. During the process of hooking up the hoist we removed the the prop cable from the prop governor to provide clearance at the forward hoist bar attach point. Normally the removal of the cable from the prop governor is not necessary to complete this task; but in this instance we were using a engine hoist bar with less clearance than normal due to the normally used hoist bar being used on the other engine at the time. at the end of the day; after finishing the mount installation; I personally do not recall reattaching the prop cable to the prop governor. I also do not recall any communication with the other mechanics involved in the task as to weather or not someone had reattached the cable. A logbook entry should have been made for the removal of the prop cable. We could work on having better communication among mechanics. We could buy actual PT-6 engine hoist bars instead of using ones made in-house.
I was involved on the removal and installation of the fuel nozzles on Aircraft X on Day 0 on day shift in ZZZ. I installed the start bleed bracket (172) and bolt (173) (2 locations) per [procedure] but did not tighten the bolts per the note (do not tighten at this time). I was told about the aircraft being grounded in ZZZ1 on Day 1 by another mechanic on the floor and that it had a burn through on the thrust reverser from a bolt missing on a nozzle. I do recall having to move multiple aircraft that day and being pulled off of the job several times for that.
Aircraft X was in for a check; it had a pressurization issue where the flight had to do a descent and the masks were deployed. It was found that the aft cargo door seal was installed backwards causing the pressurization loss. Installation of the aft cargo door seal was installed backwards during a check. [I suggest] proper training and inspection; also follow published procedures.
While performing Integrated Drive Generator (IDG) troubleshooting on Aircraft X; I opened the E&E Bay to run a Built in Test Equipment (BITE) test on the IDG Computer unit in accordance with my reference manual around XA00-XA30. The BITE Test indicated that the #1 Engine IDG would need to be replaced. I intentionally left the E&E Bay opened due to the fact that the new IDG would require another BITE Test after installation to verify that it is in working order. After ordering all the required parts and tools for the IDG installation (Between XA45-XB00). I went to prepare and familiarize myself with the procedures on installing the IDG. After receiving the parts and tools (Between XC00-XC30) I was told that the IDG change was still a go. I informed my co-workers who were assigned to help me the process and procedures needed to accomplish the job I then proceeded to open the #1 Engine cowling and started to accomplish the IDG change. I was approached by my crew chief around XD00-XD30 that the job would be on hold as they might be able to defer the job. At XE00-XE30 I was informed that the IDG Change was going to be deferred and we need to clean up; close the engine bay; and complete our paperwork. I volunteered to clean up and close the engine bays while my co-worker return the parts and tools to their proper location. After completing paperwork I closed the flight. I regrettably do not remember ever closing the E&E Bay while cleaning up my work area. I was later informed that the E&E Bay was indeed left open and the plane was unfortunately made to do a return flight back to ZZZ to be closed. Numerous factors played a part for this occurrence. Complacency and stress played a huge part on my end; being able to be alert and retrace my steps after a job would have rectify this situation before it became a problem. Operational time pressure also played a role for the fact that rushing anyone especially with highly priority workload such as this will ultimately lead to mistakes. Also the lack of awareness from myself and other Company workers (mechanics and other departments who are task to verify that the plane is cleared for flight) failed to see the bay was left opened. Having more awareness first and foremost is something I should implement in my daily work routine. Also having better time management and realistic goals beforehand as far as management/supervision go would reduce unnecessary stress and possibly prevent situations like this from occurring.
Turn over to install VSV actuator; Installed actuator per AMM XX-XX-XX. Performed idle leak check no leaks noted at that time. When aircraft was on the blocks the incident was noted.
Working Aircraft X; A Check; while performing moisture removal of the Proximity Sensing System and Ps3 lines; I was also working the #2 EDP (Engine Driven Pump) filter element replacement task off the A Check. While waiting for the process of the moisture removal; I worked the #2 EDP filter element change. While in the process doing that; the HYD quick disconnect line was removed from the pylon during the procedure. When installing the new element the time was almost done with the moisture removal; I safety wired the EDP bowl back and missed connecting the quick disconnect line while going back to finish up the Proximity Sensing System PS3 moisture removal task card. Closed up the fan cowls and ran the test needed for the moisture removal task card and did not see any HYD issues at that time while running both A & B systems. It was told to me later the Aircraft X [requested priority handling] due to this event of the work performed.
I was given as part of the work package for Aircraft X; a job to replace packings on #2 ENG chip detector housing as the seals on the actual detector had already been replaced by swing shift. When I took the housing out of the body. I found the tech data I had been given as well as the packings did not match the parts I was looking at. I told my Crew Chief and he came down and tried to make what we had work but could not. We decided to look at #1 ENG chip detector so we dropped the chip detector from the sleeve and looked up into the valve and saw it was a completely different set up with the rubber seal missing from the #2 ENG check valve. The Crew Chief ordered complete valve body assembly to come in later in the day. Everything was put back together and at morning turnover Crew Chief told Lead Crew Chief what we had done and that both engines will require leak checks. I am not sure what happened; if the engines passed leak check and later failed or the leak check was overlooked because there was no log entry. I feel sick about it either way and wish I had it to do over again.Either the leak check was done and it passed only to fail later or it was overlooked by the next shift because there was no log entry only a verbal turnover.Everything must be documented.
When doing a NLG wheel assembly R+R; I performed the installation on the #200 side.  When installing the wheel assembly; I installed the wheel in reverse with the chine facing inboard rather than outboard.
Aircraft X came in around XA30 on Date. Ferried in from ZZZ. The write up was for damage in the RSVM area. A Mechanic blended in ZZZ but the area wasn't complete and the write up in the log book still was open. With the ferry permit; the permit stated that the damage was still present; and the aircraft was never RSVM or CATII downgraded before flight. Per the Maintenance Manual there was supposed to have a SIL XX-XY issued for the RVSM downgrade. Also; none of the procedures were followed that are outlined in the Maintenance Manual Ref X.X.X and X.X.Y. Then after a week of doing lightning inspections and repairs out of the manuals; management decided to do the Phase 2 work card on the following [workday]. This was suggested to management on day 2. but as usual it was ignored. We also had Aircraft Y here in ZZZ a couple weeks ago with worst damage but we did not do the work card and it was fine. I am not sure if this Aircraft is the problem or it was Aircraft Y.
On Day 0; Aircraft X was scheduled for a super crown inspection at ZZZ. Included in the task card package was task card XXXX-XXXXX-ZZ Fuselage skin inspection- chem mill step at forward entry door.The inspection area is from BS360-BS380 below stringer 8L. Several months later; a repair was installed at BS380 between S7L and S8L that extends forward into the inspection area designated on the paperwork.Task card step XX requires engineering to be notified with a Maintenance Request; if any existing repairs are in the inspection area or any condition prohibits the inspection from being accomplished. I did not contact engineering for instructions nor did I document the use of a Medium Frequency Eddy Current inspection within 4 in. of the repair doubler. The same inspection was repeated in ZZZ1 on schedule since. That inspector also did not request a Maintenance Request.I don't specifically remember performing the inspection on this aircraft; as I accomplish many super crown inspections. So; I can't be certain as to what occurred. It is possible that the patch did not obstruct the ability to fully inspect the chem-mill pocket; as the pocket does not extend completely to the BS380 frame. If so; then it did not prohibit the inspection from being accomplished; therefore a Maintenance Request was not requested.This task card is always the first task card I accomplish during the super crown inspection. If the patch did in fact hinder fully inspecting the pocket; I would have accomplish the Medium Frequency Eddy Current inspection and continue on with the rest of the task cards in the package. If this is the case. my assumption is that by the time we finished the rest of the inspections and started signing the 15 or so task cards that make up the super crown package; that the requirement to contact engineering for the Maintenance Request slipped my mind.In the future I will take photos and immediately request a Maintenance Request any time a repair exist in the inspection area designated by the paper work. Even if it does not prohibit the accomplishment of the inspection.
Aircraft X arrived ZZZ with clamp on pressure seal off at aft keel beam in wheel well for APU pneumatic duct with showing torn insulation sticking out indicating pressurization leaks.
I have written up four -800s in the last year for weather radar that does not accurately depict thunderstorms on the 160-mile scale. In visual conditions it has been obvious that weather was within and above our altitude (confirmed with WSI EFB radar display). The radars displayed no weather returns at all. When within 80 miles; the radar depicted some returns but all were hashed out in green; meaning our altitude was well above. Visual verification proved this to be false. Once within the 40-mile scale; it would more accurately depict intensity and height; but by then it could be too late to make a preemptive turn.Two Mechanics informed me that there was a known corruption of the data on the -800's memory that depicts return tops. The most recent Mechanic also said how temperature (heat) sensitive the transmitters are and he blew out a canister filter that was full of debris. We have recently been reminded of turbulence injuries to Flight Attendants. The scenario I have written about happening in IMC or night conditions; when 100% of our faith relies on accurate radar returns; could lead to inadvertent penetration of thunderstorms.
After push back off of Gate XX; The flight crew on Aircraft X called the hangar controller radio stating they had an Anti Ice Standby Pitot AOA message. I reviewed the history of the aircraft and proceeded to have the crew do a circuit breaker reset for the Standby AOA. The fault cleared and the crew was informed to send an ACARS code when able; to log the reset into the history.  At this time the crew did not mention they had made a log for this and would need a new Maintenance Release. When I previously had checked; this aircraft had a valid Maintenance Release. Maintenance later called to notify me that the aircraft departed with an open log and did not have a valid Maintenance Release due to this. The flight crew did send the code after take-off however (ELB log XXXXXXX) at XA:47 local; they took off at XA:14.During the time I was working with the flight crew; we were on the tail end of a busy bank of flights and also several arrivals calling inbound logs. My time was not uninterrupted as I was multi-tasking with other tasks simultaneously. I have never had an aircraft leave without a valid Maintenance Release before this event and believe there was a failure on my part to re-check the ELB and also on the part of the flight crew to not communicate the log was open and they needed a new Maintenance Release. Working solo in this position puts far too much pressure on one individual and creates situations where you are distracted in many directions (phone calls; radio calls; operations center chat updates; vendors; people in the operations center approaching you when you are dealing with aircraft on the radio) all can lead to a situation like this where you lose full concentration and then move onto the next task without the time to properly go over the current event and make sure every step of our process has been followed.Always having two or more hangar controllers working per shift so one is able to work without being distracted when working technical issues on aircraft off the gate. The number of distractions can be extremely high and takes away our ability to fully concentrate on one task at a time. Double checking the ELB prior to an aircraft departing after pushback.
This report is filed to report FAA violation. Aircraft X arrived ZZZ with right pack exhaust diffuser mount bracket broken-cracked and allowing diffuser to be loose in plenum and move around with force of exhaust air. See log page XXXXXXX for details. Also see safety bulletin XXXXXXX. The diffuser mount bracket mfg p/n 2215674-1 cracked-broken see report XXXXXXX for this damaged part.
This report is filed to report FAA violation.Aircraft X; pre-departure walk around discovered right elevator lower hinge #6 cover panel 344lb installed in wrong orientation and sustained damage. See log XXXXXXX for details.
Aircraft had an air return for a gear disagree. Upon aircraft landing an inspection was conducted and the gear pin was found still installed and the tow pin was discovered in the gear pin holder in the flight deck. As aircraft returned to gate after an air return due to a gear disagree EICAS message; it was discovered that the aircraft tow pin had been pulled and stowed instead of the Nose Landing Gear (NLG) downlock pin. I myself was a part of the pulling and stowing process. As I was leaving the flight deck I verified that there were indeed 5 pins put and stowed away in the box before signing off gear pins in the logbook; not realizing the NLG downlock was still installed due to the wind blowing the flag of the downlock pin up and around the NLG. After the discovery; the NLG pin was pulled and stowed in its correct location fixing the air disagree EICAS issue. It was noted from the flight crew as well that they did not see the downlock pin still installed during their walk around and noted seeing 5 pins stowed in the flight deck before departure.
This is the best of my recollection of this event on Day 1. I Received a call from the night pilot around XA:00 AM reporting a Main Gear Box (MGB) chip light came on during flight; and the pilot performed a precautionary landing in a grass field. I arrived on the scene around XA:45 AM. To my knowledge the Manager and my Maintenance Lead were informed at the time of the incident. I reviewed the logbook for a discrepant entry; and there was not one written for the current fault. I opened my laptop and setup my phone as a hotspot for internet. The service in the location was not the best; but eventually I was able to see the workbook. This is the first MGB chip light incident I have had. The fault found was the lower electrical chip detector of MGB had a singular magnetic scale that was less than the prescribed limits. I had the Pilot perform a ground run to make sure the chip detector would remain off. I told the Pilot that I felt the issue was resolved and he may return to base. Due to my lack of sleep and awareness; I did not inform Maintenance Control of the event; nor the aircraft was placed out of service; and the logbook did not have the proper entries. I feel that my lack of experience with chip lights; my awareness was lacking at the time of the event; and following up with maintenance control to ensure the work performed was recorded; I would need additional training on the Companies policies and procedures as well as ensuring that the proper entries in the logbook are created before starting maintenance; as well as having the aircraft properly removed from service through our Maintenance Control.
Once I pushed the aircraft to its destination with the tug I gave the brakes on signal to Person A (left seat). He responded back with a close fist indicating that the brakes were set. I moved the tug from the plane then went to the side to engage the disengage switch. When I started approaching the plane on foot I noticed the plane started moving. At this moment I'm yelling screaming and jumping trying to get Person A's attention saying Brakes Brakes Brakes! At this moment I realize they can't stop or just can't hear me. So I tried to move the tug out of the way but was too late. The plane crashed into the Tug. No hydraulic pressure!Put power on the plane via GPU and turn the HYD pumps on so we have brakes before we tow out of the hanger.
B777; Aircraft X was towed into Gate XX and into a string of dollies with an upward metal tongue puncturing the LH engine nose cowling. The aircraft was out of service for approx 4 days for expensive repairs. The marshaller with orange wands was Person A; a new AMT with prior experience in a hangar environment at Company. He was not trained on marshaling or on the fact that the Gate must be clear of all equipment. He gave false 'all clear' signals when he should have given 'stop' commands. Local management is responsible for training new AMTs new to busy flight line operations. This did not happen for Person A. Essentially; new hire AMT training is woefully inadequate to prevent damage to aircraft and possible injury to employees.
Person 1 called Maintenance. We noticed that the cargo door was bent on the cover access. We removed panels and deferred the system.
When working thru AD 2022-04-09; the procedures are very difficult to follow and understand. When using an iPad; it is very difficult to scroll through pages. P/N and serial numbers difficult to navigate. There are several rows and pages of numbers.Suggest printed copies to be able to page thru lists layed out for easier viewing.
Aircraft X arrived in ZZZ with 'B' system hydraulics failure; found #2 EDP leaking and damaged. Performed removal and replacement of #2 hydraulic pump per AMM and accomplished hydraulic system flush of 'B' system in accordance with procedure.Serviced B system hydraulics; performed multiple leak checks; no defects or leaks found. Aircraft X departed for ZZZ1 and crew reported #2 ENG hydraulic low pressure light illuminated.
On Date at approximately XA:00; I worked a MT (maintenance task) to replace Engine #2 case drain filter on Aircraft X. I was contacted on Date1 by a union rep that there had been an event involving a hydraulic line on Aircraft X. While performing this task there is a quick disconnect line at the pylon that is normally removed to prevent excess hydraulic fluid from being lost while the filter is being replaced. AT (auto throttles) this a norm that many mechanics perform. Upon completing the task the quick disconnect line is installed. I performed the leak check and I did not notice anything out of the ordinary; no leaks were noted. after the event had occurred I reviewed the paperwork and discovered that step 3 of the MT was accidentally accomplished by myself. this leak check should have been accomplished by a second amt.
Aircraft suffered damage to the cabin door from an impact strike by a jet bridge. Measurements were taken and assessment of the damage was given to Maintenance Control as the 2 areas of damage; Dent & Nicks; both were out of limits. Maintenance Control Controller was handling the event and sent the info to Embraer for determination. Sometime around XA00; Aircraft X was hooked up to be towed to a gate; as tow team was notified that the aircraft was ok for service and cleared to leave. I found out that someone was rushing the return to service due to other AOG (Aircraft On Ground) aircraft. I contacted Maintenance Control and was notified that the ETD was approved; the EO (Engineering Order) was in process and would be ready soon. My Quality Control and I printed out copies of the EO and ETD; went over it with the Controller and Maintenance Control Supervisor over the phone as he had provided screenshot of what the logbook should look like; due to multiple Deferred Maintenance Tasks (DMTs) for the dents and nicks to the door to make sure we were getting everything right in the book and was discussed that the 50FC (Flight Cycles) DMTs covered everything required. Quality Control and I agreed everything looked good and I entered all of the info of the logbook screenshots into the logbook and we signed the EO/ETD's. We missed the verbiage of step 6 for creating a 100FC DMT that was reoccurring.
Aircraft X arrived ZZZ with hydraulic and APU fuel shroud drain mast leading edge eroded and multiple open holes completely penetrating the shell. See log for details.
The pilot in command (PIC) on Aircraft X called Maintenance at (XA12) and noted the 'Water Systems' 7.5 amp circuit breaker tripped. I advised that he can rest the circuit breaker on the ground once. The flight crew reset the circuit breaker and operated the vanity water system normally. The crew experienced while they were climbing through 7;000 ft. to 8;000 ft. they noticed an acrid electrical odor. The second in command (SIC) went back to the lav area and pulled the circuit breaker that was reset on the ground earlier. The aircraft returned to the field. The odor/smell was gone by the time they had landed. Modify [the flight operations manual] Circuit Breakers & systems. Suggest to have language if possible to operate systems with any circuit breaker that was found tripped by the flight crew after re-set.
A ladder was positioned to access the electronics bay for troubleshooting with enough clearance. The ramp loaded the fwd cargo bay and aircraft weight came in contact with ladder creating a dent in the skin. Inspection and Sheet Metal went thru and an OK for service was applied; deferring the item with a monitor for a future repair. Ladder clearance was not big enough to compensate for aircraft loaded with cargo. We need more ladders in ZZZ line maintenance a 7 foot ladder will be ideal to work on the 777; 6 foot ladders are too short and 8 foot ladders create this situation.
During adjustment of the nose landing gear torque links; a step to adjust the weight on wheels proximity switch was not accomplished. It was in fact out of adjustment and caused a landing gear failure in flight.Maintenance procedure was not followed step - by -step. Also not reviewed by myself - as the Inspector required per Required Inspection Item (RII) procedures.
On Day 0 at XC50; Aircraft X went AOG at APA for WOW MISCOMPARE Amber CAS: 'After Takeoff landing gear would not retract. After several attempts to retract gear WOW MISCOMPARE Amber CAS message was generated'. At XD32; I requested the aircraft to be placed into hanger to thaw. I informed Maintenance Control that we would not be able to do gear swings with absence of a hydraulic mule. At XD39; Person A in Maintenance Control responded that we could do with the aux pump if needed and attached Cessna letter XXXXXXXX. At XJ16; I sent a message informing Maintenance Control that the aircraft finally made it into the hanger and that we still need a Maintenance Manual (MM) reference for performing the gear swings with the aux pump. At XJ29; Person C at Maintenance Control replied that he would look into finding a reference; and if he could not find one that he would inquire Person B for support documentation. At XK35; Person D sent an email expressing his concern for an approved procedure that allows us to deviate from what is written in the MM. At XK53; Person C sent an email stating that they were not looking to have all the operational gear swing checks complied with but just wanted to make sure the gear will go up and locked and come back down and locked. He added that if we weren't comfortable with doing this that they could pursue a special ferry permit. At XK57; Person D replied; please pursue working on a Special Ferry Permit. At XL32; Person C responded that they were going to look for another vendor and would not prefer to ferry due to an improper preflight. At XM03; Maintenance Control notified us that they were going to seek a vendor as an assist for a hydraulic mule and don't close out our paperwork. On Day 1; XA49; we received an email from Person E stating that after speaking with Person F and Maintenance Control; that they felt that the letter from Cessna was acceptable for use to continue the directed maintenance. At XA50; Person E called us to follow up on his email and stated to get the aircraft back to the customer. At XB16; Person D and I spoke with Person F and he in turn sent us an email granting his authority to use the aircraft aux pump to perform a gear swing to assure proper gear indications. We went ahead and complied with the maintenance as directed.Maintenance Control directed us to perform gear swings per a correspondence letter XXXXXXXX dated 2 years ago from Cessna that references servicing of the hydraulic system per chapter 29. No where in the letter does it explicitly state that the aux pump can be used to swing the gear. There is no maintenance manual reference that states that you can use the aux pump to swing the gear. On Day 1 at XD17; spoke with Person G with Cessna and he informed Person D and I that gear swings with the aux pump is not prohibited but is not recommended. Person D and I did not feel comfortable with deviating from the maintenance manual and felt that the letter from Cessna lacked intent and was ambiguous. If any form of gear swing is prohibited with the hydraulic aux pump; the MM should state this or a more explicit letter from Cessna should be prepared. We were placed under utmost human factors of stress and duress from Maintenance Controls and our Supervisors to go against years of safety training and to speak up when put into a compromising position. Only after our phone call with Person F did we feel that we could execute the maintenance requested with his authority.
Aircraft X in ZZZ reported both Overwing exit door slides not showing armed. Technicians called Maintenance for approval to defer both of the O/W exit slide armed indications. Maintenance rejected the MELs pending an inspection of the OW exit slide arming lever engagement. Technicians went out and found on both doors the slide arming levers were not slid / engaged into the door frames. (if the doors were opened the slides would not have deployed). Aircraft X was 2 cycles post overhaul in ZZZ1 following storage. It had multiple test flights performed in ZZZ1; then did a repo flight to ZZZ2. At revenue flight to ZZZ was where this defect was discovered.
Good morning; we had an incident here at Gate XX at approximately XA40. Operations called us to go to Gate XX to investigate Aircraft X; Engine 2 regarding a fuel leak. I went out with Person A; the midnight Lead and we were ready to investigate the leak while the crew ran the engine since it was a full flight and ready to go. Once we got there the crew told the ramp that operation had given them the green light to push out to the alley even though we in maintenance objected. We did not think going out to the alley while the Ramp was pushing the aircraft would be the best choice since the aircraft was still at the Gate. We were overridden by Operations and the Crew asked the Ramp to push back to the alley. I followed the aircraft to the alley while the ramp positioned the aircraft on the center line. As the crew started #2 engine and began to run I noticed fuel was not dripping out but gushing out the bottom and spraying the aft end of the engine. I was yelling at the crew to stop the engine and it took about 10 seconds or so for anyone to acknowledge what I was asking. At this point I was not sure what type of leak we had and instructed the Ramp to bring the aircraft back to the Gate. They began to bring the aircraft back to the Gate. I went back in to gather more guys to help out. By the time we went back out the aircraft was back on the center line and the engine was running again. The ramp said that operations stopped the aircraft from coming back to the Gate and they were instructed to push back out and have the crew run the engine and observe for leaks. Supposedly the leak stopped and the aircraft left. I personally witnessed the engine spraying fuel from the bottom and the ramp did not. They should NOT be observing for leaks since they did not even see an active stream and this procedure is dangerous. We had people on board with an engine spraying fuel out as it started which can lead to a fire. I was beyond livid from what I experienced this morning. Most of us take pride in our work and regard safety of the passengers as our PRIMARY concern. What I witnessed this morning was everything but that. I called Maintenance Control to voice my concern because originally we were told that they made the decision. After speaking to one of them they said it came from OUR operations here. We have new hires and this is not the way they should be observing our maintenance program to be run. We should not be sending aircraft to the centerline to run an engine when it has been reported by the ramp and/or crew that there is a leak and have the ramp determine if there is a leak.
I was assigned to the aircraft move; and this was our 12th move of the night. I was the driver of the Goldhofer on Aircraft X; and as we were moving the aircraft out; it seemed like a normal push out. I saw the right wing walker cross his arms; and hit the brakes; and the airplane continued to move down the grade of the hangar. I also heard the TTWS (Tow Team Warning System) horn go off. I was in the process of getting OJT tonight; and this was my fifth move driving the tug.
The incident in question happened on Day 0; Aircraft X; arriving at the gate in ZZZ. As the Crew Chief on the concourse I was notified by our Maintenance Tower that there may be damage on the l-4 door; reported by catering. I sent a mechanic out with this information for further investigation. Shortly afterwards the mechanic called my desk requesting I come out to the aircraft. Upon arrival to the 4-l door a tear was found in the aft lower corner area of the door with displaced material rolled upward and inward toward the door seal. The catering personnel stated after raising the truck and opening the 4-l door; upon placing the plate between the truck and doorway for the carts to roll into the doorway; that this is when they spotted the damage and notified their Tower which then notified Maintenance Tower. For this damage to have occurred the door would have to be in the opened position with something raising upward making contact with the door continuing to raise upward; tearing the door rolling the displaced material upward and inward then the equipment would then need to be lowered away from the door and damaged area before the door then could be closed. Catering stated they raised the bed upward to the proper height; opened the door and did not raise or lower the door after that until after the incident was investigated. The aircraft could fly into ZZZ with this damage with no indication inside the aircraft (door squealing) because the door seal was intact and secure. When referring to Engineering Authorization (E/A) XXXXXX; the damaged area of the door was removed and inspected. Temporary repair instructions item #11 states to accomplish leak/pressurization test ensuring no door squealing; pressurization is constant and the door seal does not bulge outward when pressurized. Since the door seal near the damaged area was not worked during the repair only the damaged material was removed this verifies that the aircraft could have been damaged before arrival at ZZZ with no indications of damage from inside the aircraft during flight. From Day 0 to now this repair has been inspected and reevaluated with final repair at or before 60;000 flight cycles from time of repair.Catering is an extra pair of eyes seeing any damage on our aircraft and reporting this to Maintenance so this can be addressed. The persons reporting this I have heard have been suspended. This is only hearsay but if it is the case then a speedy investigation must be accomplished getting all the facts available with insight from all the groups involved.Aircraft damage is an ongoing part of everyday operation. This is going to happen again and we need all groups to investigate each incident with all the facts being put on the table for everyone's input to be heard.
AD 78-01-14 lists actions to prevent an inflight fire. By installing nipples on a bare battery contactor; the possibility of an in flight fire is drastically reduced. Early model aircraft originally did not have any protective parts such as nipples to prevent an accidental grounding of the battery contactor. However; newer aircraft have items similar to nipples and protective covers to prevent an accidental grounding of the contactor terminals. Please note an accidental grounding of a battery cable delivers enough amperage to create an electrical arc similar to an arc welder. This could create a hole in the fuselage in one second and deliver enough heat to ignite paint and residual oil.The problem- AD 78-01-14 is only applicable for aircraft using certain ELT installations. The owners for these older aircraft are updating the ELTs to newer versions. As a result; AD 78-01-14 will no longer be applicable to these aircraft; so an airworthiness directive requiring the installation of nipples will no longer be enforceable by means of the AD. However; a problem with a loose cable or tool in the area of the aircraft battery is still an area of concern. Many modern aircraft still leave the factory with protective equipment for the battery contactor.My recommendation is that AD 78-01-14 be revised to not restrict applicability to aircraft with the ELTs. This AD should be applicable to all aircraft.
On Day 0; we performed a blade lube on the #1 engine of Aircraft X. All was normal as we finished up and went to do the high power runs. After completing the high power runs the vibe were high so we brought the aircraft back to the hanger to adjust the weights to the solution given by the AVM (Airborne Vibration Monitoring). Once back at the hangar the AMTs (Aviation Maintenance Technicians) on the ground noticed then spinner cone to be clocked wrong. Upon a closer look we noticed that the blades were in at the wrong position. Being off by one blade (ex: #1 was in #24; #2 was in #1 etc) once that was discovered we decided to bring the Aircraft into the hangar and correct the problem. Aircraft X was brought into the hangar and we removed the forward spinner cone along with the aft spinner and blades. During removal sufficient lubricant was on the blades to allow us to remove them and correct the issue. After we removed corrected the misplaced blades to the correct position we reinstalled the aft spinner and forward cone and torqued to the correct values given in the task. All the while working off of the original task that was issued to the #1 Engine to begin with and never closed as we were the original AMTS to be working the card. We then went back out to run the motor again and completed the vibration survey satisfactorily according to the task.
While working on the Aircraft X; I put a ladder under the aft cargo door. I can clearly see it was a couple inches shorter than it; then I proceed to open it. The aft corner hits the ladder and bent it. Excessive workload creating pressure and stress likely making mistakes. Dividing workload among more technicians.
On Date; at approximately XA:45; while pushing Aircraft X the left winglet lower strake made contact with the stair stand outside the hangar. The way I had the tug positioned to line up the aircraft with the center line; I could not see the stand. By the time the wing walkers stopped me; the lower winglet had already made contact. I am filing this report now; because at the time of the incident i was ill advised not to file one.
Arrived at work and my supervisor told me my job was to change the High Pressure Shut-Off Valve on the LH Air Cycle Machine; I found my references and did the job referencing the manual throughout. When I came in the next day I was told the plane had to return to field and both the bleed leaks were flagging in the system. Several people examined the area and finally found the issue was the loops behind the Shut Off Valve were installed under the insulation cover so when operated for long enough for the High Pressure Shut-Off Valve to get hot it flagged as a bleed leak event.When installing the insulation cover there are two sets of loops it has to go under; one of them is on the side and can see easily; the other is not in the visual field and is not mentioned in the Aircraft Maintenance Manual other than to make sure the insulation cover is installed under the loops.)I made sure the one I could see was not under the cover; when performing the operational check of the installation the issue did not flag and was cleared. Familiarize myself with the system more and have work double and triple checked before signing off.
On Date; at around XA:30 while accomplishing ADM LITE Functional TEST PROCEDURE; I did a walk around on Aircraft X and saw fan cowls fully open; T/Rs fully open; leading edge fully retracted and trailing edge fully extended. While working Task Card; Step 8; J; I put Aircraft X in Air Mode' system 1 & 2 on Proximity Electronics Unit. The standby hydraulic pump immediately came on and started  leading edge flaps and slats to start to extend. I immediately went back to the Proximity Electronics Unit  and put Aircraft X back into 'ground mode'. Before Aircraft X was back in 'ground mode'; leading edge flaps came in contact with T/Rs.
777-200; left engine-drive pump (EDP) supply shut off valve repetitive operational test.Prior to the event occurring; I was aware that you had to do this test by just pulling up on the fire handle and pushing it straight back down and I told my partner I do not remember them pulling breakers when I last participated in this task. My partner and I opened up my tablet to the AMM manual per task card to ensure we were using the correct instructions. We pulled and collared the 5 breakers listed under AMM subtask XX-XX-XX-XXX-XXX. While we agreed that I would use the flatbed lift truck to go up on each of the engine pylons to watch the EDP shut off valves. The RH EDP OSP checked good but the LH side one was not. We were confused as to why it was not working and so my partner went to consult a fellow Mechanic familiar with the job. During our agreed upon break; I read through the AMM and found that we pulled CB B5) and we probably needed that breaker in per AMM subtask XX-XX-XX-XXX-XXY. My partner came back with the other Mechanic and we discussed that the LH EDP shutoff valve was obviously not going to work with the breaker pulled out. So; I said we should push back in that one breaker and do the test again. When I was up on the lift at the LH pylon I called my partner over the phone that I was ready and she could pull the handle. She said ok and then all I heard was what sounded like a loud boom and air; then another quick succession boom and heavy blast of air flow from underneath me from the engine. I said to her over the phone it sounded like she blew a bottle; but at least the shutoff valve worked.
While installing rudder locks on Aircraft X as the rudder was coming back to center; the tool broke two tabs off on the Power Control Unit. This happened during a scheduled task card for rudder lube for a 777. We had to install the rudder locks to be able to perform the lube.
Job Cards XXXX-XXXXX-XXX and XXXX-XXXXX-XXY (EA XXXX-XXXXX rev b) directs to follow sub tasks XX-XX-XX-XXX-XXX and XX-XX-XX-XXX-XXY of AMM Task XX-XX-XX-XXX-XXX. In addition; the job card does not have any reference to aircraft configuration that is required or safety warnings or notes. Starting from the first page of AMM XX-XX-XX-XXX-XXX; circuit breakers are locked out; upon event review of the situation; I have found out that the breaker for the left EDP Valve was not in the correct configuration and it prevented the valve from cycling open and closed during the check; we attempted to start over and reconfigure the aircraft to the initial point. Then; after collaborating with other Mechanics it was communicated that the check can be started directly from the start of the sub tasks and they will complete successfully. This was communicated to me and my partner that this is exactly why the job card instructs you to do the sub tasks of the AMM. AMM XX-XX-XX-XXX-XXX is scattered and easily misinterpreted. Sub Tasks XX-XX-XX-XXX-XXX and XX-XX-XX-XXX-XXY do not specifically define how to configure the aircraft and as a result I misinterpreted the procedures and correct configuration of the breakers to be open and locked out. While pushing in the overheat/ test switch; looking at the hydraulic display screen; and pulling the fire handle; While my body was twisted; I accidentally deviated from center of fire handle causing fire extinguisher to discharge.
While troubleshooting an over wing [priority] exit door indication issue on the evening of Date; I found that the RH AFT over wing exit door could not be opened. The top of the exit door would contact the bottom of the overhead bin preventing the door from opening more than one or two inches. I attempted to open the RH AFT over wing [priority] exit door to test the door indication and was unable to open the door. The overhead bin had been removed and reinstalled on Date. An ops check of the [priority] exits should have been completed after installation.
On the day after performing maintenance on Aircraft X; I failed to downgrade the Category (CAT) status when making a maintenance update on the computer. The plane came in with an MEL that the FD1 had tripped when attempting to connect to ILS. The release instructed me to perform an ALS (Auto Landing System) Bite Test; record any faults present; then troubleshoot the fault prior to replacing any of the parts that it recommended might remedy the fault. I performed the AFS (Auto Flight System) Bite test per the Manual which reported one fault: 1 DYNROD CA (Captain)/FO (First Officer) FAILED.I then went back to the manual and found the steps to troubleshoot this fault; which led me to replacing the FCC 1 computer on the aircraft. Per manual instruction; I again performed the AFS Bite test; and the fault was still present. I then noted that the next step in troubleshooting would be to replace Dynamometric rod 69CA. Since ZZZ did not have the rod in stock; I could not go any further in troubleshooting the fault. Before making my entries in workbench; my coworker suggested we could sign off the current MEL and then create a new MEL for the place but being unsure of what steps needed to be taken; I suggested to him that I would call Maintenance Control to ensure we make the correct computer entries to which; he agreed. Before calling Maintenance Control; I wrote down all of the steps we had taken in troubleshooting the aircraft in an attempt not to leave anything out.At around XA:00 am I called Maintenance Control and told them everything we had done and what steps I had planned on taking to update the release in workbench to verify that they were in fact; the correct steps to take. Maintenance Control Technician advised to; in as great of detail as possible; updated the release with what actions that I had taken and that Maintenance Control would then recommend changing the Dynamometric Rod and find a home for the aircraft. The topic of the aircraft's CAT status was never broached by me nor the Maintenance Control Technician.It was not until another of my coworkers came in around XF:30 pm that the CAT status of the aircraft was mentioned. He reminded me that changing an FCC computer downgrades the CAT status of the aircraft until a qualified Mechanic performs a successful AFS Land Test. I told him that the CAT status was already downgraded because of the current MEL caused by the flight director. This; however; turned out not to be true. I had formed this assumption from when I was looking on the computer before the aircraft arrived at ZZZ from the note it had about the flight director MEL. I realize now that I never actually verified the current CAT status; which gave me no authority to speak on the matter. Firstly; I made the assumption that the CAT status had already been downgraded due the flight director fault I was working. Secondly; when I discussed the work I had performed with 3 of my coworkers and 1 Maintenance Control Technician; only one person brought up anything about CAT status change and none of them verified the aircraft had the proper CAT status prior to its departure at ZZZ. Having said that; the responsibility was mine and mine alone. Definitely Human Factors. Maybe some type of Pop up in the App that will not allow you to complete a sign off without downgrading CAT status when it knows that you've changed an item. I probably should have been more thorough in my communication with the Maintenance Control Technician by asking more questions. I am new to Line Maintenance but I have tried to build up a reputation as someone who is very thorough and detail-oriented in their work and that may have caused my coworkers not to question me further on that day. I doubt that will be a common occurrence moving forward because of this event.
Pilot wrote up no light off on #2 Eng R/H Ignition and Normal start on L/H ignition. Maintenance deferred #2 Eng L/H Ignition. Trouble shot and determined #2 Eng L/H ignition inoperative. Therefore replaced L/H ignition with no help and then replaced exciter box and worked normal.
I was contacted by the Crew of Aircraft X that they were unable to start their # 2 Engine after they had pushed back from the gate. While reading the write up I had mistakenly thought that the Left Hand Ignition had failed and placed the Left Hand Ignition on MEL instead of the Right Hand Ignition.
While working on Aircraft X.  The Thrust Reverser Operational Test AMM (airport moving map) required ignition breakers on either engine as well as the auto speed brake to be opened; after performing the task the ignition breakers were not verified closed; and the Flight Crew reported engine no start in the morning.
Leaving work I was notified of an event that occurred on Aircraft X where the aircraft was unable to pressurize during flight. I had previously completed troubleshooting on this aircraft. During troubleshooting an avionics cooling problem; I was unable to duplicate the fault. The avionics cooling system can either recirculate its air or dump it overboard. The MEL must be properly applied to close the overboard valve. I do not recall any compounding circumstances during my troubleshooting; however I do recall maintenance being doing that interfered with troubleshooting. To begin troubleshooting I had to undo the procedures of MEL this allowed the valves to operate; once I had completed the extent of my troubleshooting I re-applied the 'M' procedures of the MEL as stated in my corrective action; I used a technical supplement along with the Aircraft Maintenance manual and MEL to complete this. While reapplying the MEL I remembered previous LMS about overboard cool issues and pressurization; as a result I verified and was very careful confirming the correct valve positions.
I work midnight shift ZZZ and was assigned Aircraft X; a B777 A check aircraft with multiple Job cards. This Aircraft was a multiple shift aircraft. When we started at XA PM the plane was already in the hangar with some task cards opened. There are different work packages which sometimes ask for redundant procedures.Leading edge slat lubrication has a job card to lock out the Slat Electric Motor power on P200 panel. This card was probably started on the previous shift they used the 'on board' We are frustrated with our paperwork and I probably should of checked for the collar removal; but again assumed other task card should of covered the re-activation. LOTO kit from the flight deck. To prevent personal injury the Leading Edge must be locked out.Both engine work cards would require LOTO of the Leading Edge so as to not damage engine fan cowl. (but mostly the GE engines as the Pratts are not interference fit!)The C/B in question is located forward of the E and E door right tunnel. (access is restricted by the design of the aircraft structure so the Circuit Breakers are not readily visible or accessible in this area) So when we started our shift the systems where locked out. The type of LOTO flight deck kit is not of a numbered type as is the E LOTO board system.I was working by myself on the #2 engine; wiring inspection; filter replacement; etc. At the end of our shift we finished task assignments Close up of engine cowls; reset systems; remove stands; get the plane ready to push out of hangar.We have explained to our management team the convoluted quagmire of 'A' check paperwork. The paper package is a synopsis of a four day 'C' check. To the best of my recollection I did sign for the re-activation of the electric motor slats; but I did not physically re-activate the system. Techs know other task cards have redundant procedures and a tasked could be accomplished from those cards.
During my job of closing a left fuel tank panel; while waiting for inspection I noticed the flap track fairing above me had fiberglass exposed on 75% of its surface and wondered how this could have been missed. I glanced over to the side and saw chunks of body fairings missing and above me noticed unprotected carbon fiber along the leading-edge access panels of the wing. On the belly I then noticed a heavily damaged area of fiberglass on the fairing and as I followed that panel to examine it for further damage; I saw the adjoining panel on the right side had large amounts of evidence of failing protection and delamination to the layer of conductive wire mesh. Also; the door on said panel had been eroded through all layers. Now on the right side of the aircraft I see the panels forward of me also have large areas of debonding; delamination and erosion. Also; the leading edge of the wing above me has even started to erode into several layers of the carbon and far beyond the protective layers. As I was documenting the discrepancies another mechanic mentioned some loose and missing rivets on the right-hand engine behind me. I wrote up the discrepant items and began performing temporary repairs as instructed and while applying speed tape on a ladder saw the over wing fairing were heavily damaged and wrote them up as well. Documenting damage as is my job. At the end of my shift a manager; summoned me to their office to harass me and apply aggressive intimidation tactics suggesting that I should ignore the obvious aircraft damage in order for their plane to meet its scheduled departure time. I informed them that documentation and repair of damage is my job and what the company insists; and FAA requires of me. Whether or not a previous mechanic decided to overlook it is irrelevant; because someone reacted wrongly does not mean that I should as well. I should not be pressured to risk my license and I informed them that Airbus and the company have temporary repairs for this exact reason. Yet; they continued to apply pressure to me and then ultimately waited until I was on vacation several days later to issue a write up to my home filled with hyperbolic statements about the discussion and scenario. Complacency during inspection along with the intense pressure and intimidation tactics by management to overlook damage. Management has long prioritized estimated time of repair over safety of passengers and proper documentation/maintenance of the aircraft. Managers should be properly trained in complacency and the unacceptable use of intimidation tactics that could put both the passenger's safety and their employees' licenses at risk. They should also be trained in the proper use of procedures; manuals; and should be reprimanded when they don't; instead of just passing the punishment onto the mechanics to instill fear in their workforce.
On the evening of Date; a rig pin was checked out to Aircraft X for the servicing of a elevator damper. The rig pin C7 was used and returned to the rig pin box. Later that morning the Mechanic came back and asked for another rig pin this time I assigned pin C8. Later when the Aircraft was at the Gate ready for departure the Supervisor asked if there was anything accomplished on the Aircraft that would cause the elevators to not move as the crew reported that they were having trouble getting the elevator to move and I said that there maybe a rig pin in them since it was not returned per the rig pin log. Said rig pin was not written up on a separate camp as being installed. The paperwork was reviewed and since there was no write-up for the rig pin was released without realizing that it was still in place on the plane. No write-up in the camps for the rig pin being installed and removed. No releasing a rig pin to a Mechanic until there is a write-up for it.
Approximately 10 minutes before scheduled departure after an overnight stay; ramp personnel called for Maintenance to look at a tire that appeared flat. A coworker found pressure at 60 PSI; well below [the] limit of 250 PSI. We changed the tire; but per B737 Aircraft Maintenance manual; we thought the adjacent tire was okay to remain in service; thinking the aircraft had not moved since the last pressure check. We were just starting our shift (days); and had not worked the plane that previous shift (midnights). Later; while discussing this with the other crew; we learned no maintenance had been scheduled on that plane. This is a VERY rare situation; as overnight aircraft almost always receive a work package that includes tire pressure checks. We discovered this plane had a work package completed in another station immediately prior to coming to our station; making up a last-minute equipment swap. Because of this; no work was scheduled overnight at our station. Had we known the aircraft had moved since the last tire pressure check; we would have changed both tires. After learning this; the aircraft returned to our station for another normal overnight check and we changed the adjacent tire as required.
Began by transferring fuel from tank 2 to tank 1; opened a fuel panel under the wing to facilitate an inspection. After successfully completing the first inspection with no defects found; we move onto another inspection and realized we needed to transfer more fuel to open the next panel down to facilitate another inspection of fuel related parts. We were in the tank for awhile inhaling the fumes; then went to transfer more fuel. By doing so; we miss to close the previous fuel panel which caused the fuel spill. As soon the fuel transfer started; one of us went outside to check on the wing and realized fuel was being expelled from the panel we forgot to close. As soon as we noticed; we immediately shut down the fuel systems and secured the spill from spilling further and prevented it from going into the storm drain. We then informed the Lead Technician and got all the necessary fuel spill equipment Immediately and begin cleaning up the spill. The Lead Technician then informed the proper authorities to access the issue. It was a human error which was influenced by the time spent in the fuel tanks inspecting the fuel ejector pump and fuel line. Ensure there is proper PPE to enter the fuel tanks; masks/ventilation.
I was installing a torque link with another mechanic. I found out that night that I mistakenly installed the torque link upside down causing the gear to fail to retract on takeoff; causing an air return. There was a trend as a result of a nosewheel shimmy including an inspection of the tolerances on the torque links. We found the torque links to have been loose and worn to limits. We opted to change the torque links. Person A was primarily responsible for the lower torque link and I; Person B; was responsible for the upper torque link. I removed the old upper torque link and proceeded to transfer the proximity targets and pin extraction handles over to the new upper torque link. In this process; I attempted to copy the old torque link and compare them to the image in the Illustrated Parts Catalog and Aircraft Maintenance manual. In doing so; I misinterpreted the photo trying to orient the upper torque link in the same way as the photo. Judging by the ridges in the technical drawing of the torque link on the Aircraft Maintenance manual reference; I mistakenly interpreted it as it going the way I installed it. I later found that to be incorrect and upside down after hearing about the air return. Person A replaced the lower torque arm pin and torque link with no issues and assisted in the installation of the spring and pin of the upper torque link. Supervisor notified after shift brief the following night that my aircraft had an air return as a result of the gear not retracting. I find the cause of this issue to be my first time changing a torque link and not knowing the proper orientation and the manual failing to give any indication of the proper orientation of the torque link. There are no markings on the torque link; or mention of how it is to be oriented besides an oddly angled technical drawing of the torque links in the reference. Add warnings to manual to include a description of the proper orientation of the torque link for install. Add markings to torque links indicating which way is up.
Worked Aircraft X for an Air Bleed Class 2 Fault. Trouble shot with Technician A and Technician B. Came to conclusion that it was the High Pressure Valve. Changed High Pressure Valve; cleaned up area surrounding engine. Ran engine; ops checked good. The next night we looked in the system and saw that there was an engine fire on the same airplane; same engine we worked on for FOD. We got together and talked through what we did and if we missed something. We let the crew chiefs know I had used a rag to clean residue from previous maintenance that had gotten on my arm. We inspected our work area after the completion of the job and did not notice any materials left behind. Preforming pressure regulating valve replacement on an engine due to an MEL.
I received an ARINC call from the inbound Flight Crew ZZZ-ZZZ1 reporting right duct pressure surging/fluctuating with cabin rate of climb fluctuating 300 ft. +/- with pressurization normal. ELB LP XXXXXXX and XXXXXXY reported the same. I had the on call Maintenance Technician perform RT Pack Temp controller bite per manual XX-XX task XXX with no existing faults found. Technician ran both packs with APU bleed air and no surging or fluctuating pack noted. I then spoke directly with the outbound Captain requesting for the crew to perform an engine run at the gate to check if the duct pressure fluctuation was engine related. Outbound Captain said that he would take the aircraft and check for any fluctuation during taxi out that he would return to the gate. Captain also indicated that if fluctuation happened in flight that he would divert to ZZZ1. I agreed to the actions of the Captain because there was no history of pressurization; RT Pack or engine bleed actions by the Captain. During taxi out the crew called about a zone temp light discrepancy. During that call I asked the Captain reported no issues with packs or engines. I was made aware of the diversion by Maintenance Manager via email. I provided link with the same statement I am providing in this report. ZZZ1 replaced the right PRSOV to fix the problem. I should have taken the aircraft out of service and send a work order from ZZZ1 to perform a high power engine run.
Technician was assigned AD XXXXXX-XXXXX. Completed all work steps without Inspection witness. After the task was completed; the Mechanic approached Inspection to work the task. Myself and another Inspector informed Technician that Inspection needed to be present at time of work. Due to the instructions on the AD; no deviation is allowed. Advised Technician to inform the Lead Technician and Supervisor of the situation. I then informed my immediate Supervisor of the situation. My Supervisor informed me that Maintenance Control approved the removal and replacement of the jack screw ref log page XXXXXXX. Returning that evening to work I was informed that a Lead Inspector and my Manager signed the AD XXXXXY-XXXXY off along with log page XXXXXXX and issued a maintenance release. This AD was reviewed and refused to signed by multiple Inspectors and 3 Supervisors before the Manager took action.
Upon receipt of aircraft from ZZZ to ZZZ1 I was on ETOPS check walk around. On R/H Engine Lower Left Hand Thrust Reverser Cowl saw a clamp bolt hanging out of the drain hole for the panel.  After opening both left and right engine cowls found a clamp in bottom or engine cowl as well. After checking log book history found there was work done in area a few months back by an outside vendor.  Upon further inspection found area of lower fuel loop going into the fuel nozzles saw where clamps were replaced. Suspect old hardware was not cleared of area before closing up engine cowls. Also found two clamps unsecured on fwd side of engine firewall fwd of fuel nozzles. Secured all loose clamps and inspected entire fuel loop and fuel nozzles for security and missing parts. None were found so suspect FOD was missed on close up. Better quality control and inspection after maintenance to clear all FOD and check for loose assemblies or parts taken apart to facilitate maintenance. Inspectors should of cleared all fuel nozzle work as well.
Aircraft X came to hangar with large portion of inlet cowl acoustic wire mesh torn and missing. I wrote up a discrepancy for possible engine ingestion due to the amount of mesh missing. I then found out that it was partly signed off using a bird ingestion work card and it was signed off by management; not by Maintenance saying that no Borescope was required and that there was no evidence of ingestion.
Received call for road trip to ZZZ for issues on Engine 2 abnormal pressure logbook item on Aircraft X. As I got ready to take my trip with my partner; we requested a 3rd person from Management but was rejected. Once we arrived to ZZZ; weather conditions were dark; extremely wet and wind gust at approximately 48 kts. We were troubleshooting the system and ran both engines multiple times for T/S purposes. After finding and resolving the issue on the engine; we requested from Fleet  Service to provide us Marshallers front and back of the engine so we can continue the operations check. When we started engine 2 and heard a loud noise to which we immediately shut down the engine. Once we approached the engine; we found several blades damaged.
Aircraft X had a deferred LH Aileron Lock Out; Maintenance Personnel who deferred the LH aileron failed to read the MEL procedures and pulled both left and right aileron lock out circuit breakers. The Aileron was deferred in ZZZ then flew to ZZZ1 as flight number XXXX. To my knowledge some troubleshooting was done in ZZZ1 causing a delay on the next leg to ZZZ2 as flight number XXXY. Plane arrived to ZZZ2 as a quick turn at XA31L on Day 1 the flight crew who flew the leg XXXY stated no maintenance issues but that the plane felt sluggish due to the LH aileron lock out deferral. Plane blocked out of Gate at XY12 with a new flight crew. The pilots were taxiing the aircraft and doing flight control checks and realized BOTH outboard ailerons were not functional. flight crew decided to do a Gate turn back as the plane can not fly without OB ailerons. Maintenance personnel concluded both OB ailerons were INOP due to previous techs pulling the RH aileron lock out Circuit Breaker. In this configuration the aircraft flew at least one leg with NO functional OB ailerons. The planes IB ailerons and flight spoilers were the only lateral control the aircraft had. Maintenance in ZZZ2 then pushed in the RH aileron lock out CB and the RH aileron became functional. Maintenance entries for ops checks and CB reset were made and the plane blocked back out as XXXZ to ZZZ3 at XB48L.
I received a text from a Day Shift Lead that a Supervisor was trying to contact me while off duty. I proceeded to check on Aircraft X to see if the call was related. I reread the MEL approved by Maintenance Control and realized I missed a note; which led me to file this report. My Lead instructed me to assist on a gate return for Aircraft X at Gate XX for an auto slat fail light illuminated on recall and extinguished when reset. Per line control; Maintenance Control suggested to use MEL XX-XX-a for auto slat systems. Performed PSEU bite per FIM XX-XX task XXX; no faults present. Performed #1 and #2 SYMD bite tests per FIM XX-XX task XXX; #2 SYMD had no faults; #1 SYMD (stall management yaw damper) had fault MSG XX-XXXXX; AOA signal error. Per the MEL I had to determine if system 1 or 2 was faulting and proceeded to deactivate #1 auto slat system by pulling and capping Auto Slat DC 1 C/B and comply with the rest of the MEL. I called Maintenance Control with the MEL pending and it was approved. Due to the time pressure of the gate return; I missed the note stating this MEL cannot be used for an AOA fault or symptom. I realize that I should have slowed down and reread the MEL several times to prevent mistakes.
After looking at the Horizontal Stabilizer Jack Screw; I saw fresh grease had been applied on the whole screw section and ball joint/pivot areas.When returning to the office; I relayed what I had seen to the other Inspector assigned with me to the north hanger aircraft that night. Afterwards the Technician opened the door and asked what we wanted. I asked if the Technician had greased the screw and the other components. The reply was yes. I then asked if all the steps were worked including the inspection steps the answer was again yes.We then informed the Technician that the work card XXXXX-XXXXX had Tech/Inspection steps that Inspection was to be present as all the steps were being performed; also this work card was AD driven.We then informed the Technician to go inform their Lead and/or Supervisor that we cannot sign the Work card because the AD had been deviated from; the Technician also had not signed off any of the steps at this time.Afterwards the other Inspector informed our immediate Supervisor On Duty of the situation. After some time; our Supervisor had informed us that a log page had been initiated to replace the Horizontal Stabilizer Jack Screw; ref. LP#XXXXXXX. That was also approved by Maintenance Control by the end of our shift.Upon returning to work after my days off I had been informed the aircraft Horizontal Stabilizer Jack Screw had been reworked and the EA log page was signed off by the Manager of Inspection; and a Lead on day shift that same morning thereby releasing the aircraft for service.
This is filed to report a FAA violation. Aircraft X arrived at ZZZ with clamp on pressure seal; it came off at the aft keel beam in the wheel well for APU pneumatic duct.
This is filed to report FAA violation.  Aircraft x; pre-departure walk around. Discovered right elevator lower hinge #6 cover panel 344 lb installed in wrong orientation and sustained damage. See log xxxxxxx for details.
I was assigned to a gate return for flight Aircraft X ZZZ-ZZZ1. The original Crew assigned to the push back noticed an engine leak and informed the Captain before takeoff. The Ramp/Cargo Manager went out on to the taxiway and inspected both engines before giving the flight deck the thumbs up the plane was clear for takeoff. I watched as the Manager inspected the aircraft without proper training to clear the issue regarding the leak. A Ramp/Cargo Manager went outside of his authority and OKed a plane with an engine leak and informed the Captain the plane was clear for takeoff; however the plane had orders to return to gate for a Maintenance Technician to inspect the issue. Aircraft Maintenance was immediately notified of the event. Removal of the Manager who overstepped his authority on the ramp. Understanding your assignments as a Manager and letting the proper and qualified individuals correct the issue. If safety is our most important goal; such gross violations and disregard for Passenger and Flight Crew safety must be addressed.
Day 0 morning while moving Aircraft X from Dock to spot XX; the fuel pit we hit a scissor lift with the #1 engine inlet cowl. I was in the flight deck riding brakes. After we stopped in spot XX I was motioned to set the brakes. After waiting for a few minutes in the aircraft; I was again motioned to release the brakes and told we were bringing the aircraft back to dock. Once parked I was told to set the brakes and come down. I was then notified that we struck a scissor lift with the #1 engine inlet cowl on the outboard side. Spot XX was dark in the early morning and has a lot of unused docking structure on the left-hand side that is within the envelope of the aircraft which makes it difficult to wing watch.
I verified the part number of the new Fuel Nozzles and Seal Replacement. In addition; I verified the installation and torque of the Fuel Nozzle Bolts; as well as; the torque and safety of the Fuel Nozzle B-Nuts.
On Day 1 hangar work load 7 aircraft and five mechanics and myself where assigned Aircraft X. At Approx. XA30 am Person A (lead) asked us to assist in closure of number 2 eng reverser/fan cowls and run #2 engine for ops check of bleed system for that motor. With all five mechanics getting aircraft ready for engine run. Everyone assisted with closure. No one noticed the red streamer hanging for the the part being pinned. Latches were closed and secured by Person B. Person A and I ran #2 eng performed operational checks. No ECAM warning or messages noted. aircraft was pulled back into hangar after engine runs due to lack of parking.
On Day 4; Aircraft X returned to field because of a high EGT (Exhaust Gas Temperature). Item had been written up on Day 0; Day 1; Day 2; Day 3; and then the final write-up on Day 4. Per Procedures Manual XXXXXX; AMTs (Aircraft Maintenance Technician) signing off a report should go back 3 days to see if it a repetitive write-up. Maintenance Manual YYYYYY states the definition of a repetitive is 3 times in 15 days. How did this one slip through the cracks? Information was given to me by a concerned crew member.
Aircraft X was inbound into ZZZ and came in with a discrepancy that the Elevator Electric Trim Chain was making a slapping noise when trimming the elevator. Aircraft was taken out of service and remained overnight. I worked graveyard shift on overtime and got assigned to troubleshoot the issue with the slapping chain for the electric trim. I adjusted the lower and bottom control turnbuckles in reference to the Aircraft Maintenance Manual with no help. Troubleshot the issue some more and found that the chain was still really loose. I adjusted the spool bolts by turning the nuts less then 1/4-inch. This fixed the issue and the chain was in limits per the Maintenance Manual. The technicians that initially found the issue that the chain was loose found that the chain had been rubbing on a frame in the pedestal.Talking to Management; it was determined that the damage wasn't that bad so the Management team edited the original write-up and deleted the pictures when I went to sign the original write-up off. There was no write-up in Maintenance saying there was any damage. I signed the aircraft off and Aircraft X was returned to service. Forty five minutes later the Inspector that performed my RII (Required Inspection Item) function; Person A; determined the Upper Turnbuckle Rod End was bent after they had already signed the aircraft of as being airworthy. They determined the Rod End was bent because they went and looked at other MAX aircraft. I ordered a new Rod End and I continued to be on shift. The Rod End came in at XF:00. I installed the new serviceable Rod End and rigged the Rod End in reference to Maintenance Manual. Inspector proceeds to tell me that they rewrote the damage up because they were accusing me of deleting the write-up and removing the pictures of the damage; which I can't do but Management can.Aircraft X goes back out of service and is still in ZZZ; has never flown since the initial squawk. I feel like I did nothing wrong and am getting accused of things I did that never happened and as far as the Rod End being bent. I looked at other aircraft and it didn't look bent to me but it was bent. The Inspector has the final say and they didn't see it either because they released the aircraft back into service. The aircraft is still here in ZZZ getting the Elevator Trim Chain replaced and the damage blended out so the aircraft hasn't flown since the initial discrepancy.Get inspectors trained on the aircraft because it's obvious [the] Inspector didn't know what they were looking for because why did they initially sign it off. Inspection is the final say.
Aircraft X returned to Concourse with a write up for F/CTL Fault Spoiler #1 LEFT and RIGHT. We replaced SEC3 IAW AMM. No help! At this time it was determined that the spoilers would be placed on MEL. After a short period of time of shining a flashlight from the ground in the spoiler area to add light; I left to going to handle paperwork and start the MEL process. I have no Narrative as to why any of the events occurred as I was on the ground for a short period of time to help provide some light. Then returned to the office to do paperwork. I am unable to provide a narrative as to offer any suggestions as to avoiding recurrence of this event. Maybe 100% buy back would help in this situation.
I was working on Aircraft X (ZZZ) and was given the task to reapply Sealant; reactivate leading edge flaps and slats and trailing edge flaps. During the reactivation process of the downlock pins. I forgot to remove the downlock pins from the leading edge standby drive shutoff valve. This was due because I was distracted; pressured; and the streamer was not visible enough. I completely miss the downlock pins and forgot to remove them. Was not aware; pressured; and distracted. Replace new streamers on the downlock pins.
We were advised the R/H Aft Emergency Exit Door Seal leaked during flight and flight returned to ZZZ. We installed Door Seal ref AMM XX-XX-XX-XXX-XXX.
Aircraft X was scheduled for a Right Engine Change in our Company Maintenance Base in ZZZ. The purpose of this Engine Change was to comply with the following tasks - Objective 1 - R&R STAGE 1 TURBINE DISK; LIFE LIMIT; Objective 3 - R&R STAGE 1 AFT COOLING PLATE; LIFE LIMIT; and Objective 2 - R&R STAGE 2 TURBINE DISK; LIFE LIMIT. Per Company's direction; these tasks must be low in cycle count to be changed. Objective 1 and Objective 2 were at 7 cycles at the start of the flying; Objective 3 was at 4 cycles at the start of the flying day. Maintenance for this Engine Change was scheduled over the course of three days (also referred to as a CML (Continuous Maintenance Line) or Weekend Down). The plane was scheduled to be inducted into Maintenance at XA:45 on the first day; and be released at XB:00 on the third day. This was extended 1 day longer due to needed Maintenance Actions within the Maintenance Hanger. The plane was noted to be completed on Date. Maintenance Personnel sent the corresponding work order to their inspector on duty; the Inspector cleared the completed work order and scanned it into the database for planning review and closure of said work order. I closed the work order and carried on with the duties assigned to me by my manager. The aircraft was released back into operation by Maintenance Control and was dispatched for 6 flights within Company's market. The aircraft would then park in a Company Contract Maintenance base in ZZZ1 for the night with Objective 3; 2 cycles over its limit. The following day; Maintenance Control noticed that Objective 3 was showing -2 on the maintenance due report and questioned Maintenance Planning. Person A sent a copy of the page showing the negative with a message. The Maintenance Planner on Duty then replied 10 minutes later. Person B then sent an email to the Company Power Plant Team as well as the Records Department questioning this negative cycle count. Come to find out; ZZZ Maintenance changed the wrong Engine on the aircraft; and the Engine that flew the 6 cycles was indeed overflown by 2 cycles. This was discovered on Date 1. The plane was grounded and corrective action was taken by ZZZ1 Maintenance. Several things can be corrected here; first and foremost; if the correct engine was changed; we would have closed the work order and expected Aircraft Records to update the tasks that were showing due. This is because instead of scheduling the industrial tasks; we at Company scheduled a pre-made Engine Change Job Card. This does not take compliance for the tasks; but for an Engine Change itself. In this situation; a good change could be for Maintenance Personnel to write a Work Card requesting Maintenance Planning to take compliance for the tasks showing due or the tasks showing due be added to the work order with the Engine Change Job Card. But in this situation; the wrong engine was changed; therefore we would have still been overflown because we would have been taking compliance for the wrong engine. It is normal to let the task fly until Aircraft Records updates the information because we see that the engine change was signed off. This is for NLG; MLG; and Engine Changes. This is a very lax system; and the one fact no one saw coming hit it resulted in an overfly. No one would have imagined that ZZZ Maintenance would change the wrong engine; everyone assumes that the procedure down line would fall into place and everything would be taken care of accordingly. Also; [the computer system] updates Hours and Cycles on our Maintenance Due Reports and [spreadsheet] once a day; that is in the early morning before flying has occurred. Therefore all day those tasks were doing positive until the update the following morning where it showed negative. The engine is well overflown at the point; but the [spreadsheet] is still showing 4; and any Maintenance Due Report at this time would also show 4 in the cycle count section.
During ETOPS inspection; found MLG Wheel #3 Axle with brake sleeve missing. Brake sleeve PN 161W1211-1 was not installed during the last wheel brake replacement. Technician must follow step by step the AMM instructions during wheel brake replacement and avoid distractions.
Aircraft X had a check card that was deferred per procedures on Day 0 due to limited ground time. The work card; was to accomplish the operational test of the passenger oxygen system. On Day 1 I received a call stating that they had been assigned the work card and had numerous faults while performing the card which affected approximately 67 passenger seats as well as the overhead Flight Attendant crew rest and a couple of Flight Attendant jump seats. I informed the Maintenance Operations Manager of the issue and said that we have the option to maintenance ferry the aircraft to another maintenance facility or we could apply MEL 35-XX-XX and block off the affected seats that had failed the test of the oxygen system. The Maintenance Operations Manager said that they wanted them to continue to follow the fault isolation procedures and see if we could repair the system. I continued to work with the mechanics via phone during the duration of my shift and then turned it over to the night shift. The next morning I arrived at work and asked what the status of the troubleshooting was and was told they had isolated the fault. The decision was made by management to allow the station to defer and work the card because it still had time left to accomplish the card and let the aircraft continue in revenue service with known faults with the passenger oxygen system.
An amber U/L(unlocked) was displayed in the #2 engine pressure ratio gauge on the engine display. All Four of the locking thrust reverser actuators were verified to be fully latched into the stowed and locked position. After notifying Maintenance; I worked with another Mechanic to lock out the #2 engine per maintenance procedures (aka MEL). The control number for the deferral was then requested from Maintenance. Note: The MEL procedures paragraph lists the thrust reverser related cockpit indications which would prevent dispatch when the engine is locked in the stowed position using this MEL. The indication is not prohibited here.
Aircraft X request was made to remove #1 Engine Fan blades; it was determined the blades were removed from #2 Engine.
Increased frequency of maintenance required on carburetors and fuel injector systems due to suspected cadmium particulate matter being found in float bowls; fuel injector nozzles; fuel screens and fuel jets. This impacts fuel flow and metering; impacting engine performance due to restriction of fuel flow. This phenomenon was observed on aircraft during unscheduled maintenance due to complaints of loss of power and also during routine scheduled maintenance. Particulate accumulation also found in check valves; auxiliary fuel pumps and mechanical engine pumps. Clumps and screen obstruction observed. This has been observed over the past four months; since aircraft started using UL94 (Unleaded 94 Octane). The exact source of the cadmium is not definitively determined at this time.We suspect the cadmium is held in suspension in the fuel and in addition to accumulating and clogging the fuel system some particles are entering the combustion chamber with unknown impacts on cylinders; valves and exhaust systems. A simple experiment was conducted. Aviation cadmium bolts were placed in 100LL and UL94 for a few hours. The bolts in 100LL remain intact with no change. The bolts in UL94 showed flaking with particles suspended in the fuel sparkling. Cleaning of all fuel parts in the fuel systems clears the problem but it reappears.  We are concerned since we have limited experience with UL94 and have not seen anything like this in our careers that total over 50 years together as A&P and IA.
After servicing the crew oxygen bottle on Aircraft X; I failed to fully open the valve on the bottle. It is my belief that I encountered a resistance partway through turning the knob; and mistakenly believed it to be open fully. I then backed the knob off 1/4-turn and safetied it per the AMM (Aircraft Maintenance Manual). Following this; I proceeded to test the system in the flight compartment. I neglected to properly read the pressure gauge; and in doing so failed to notice that the pressure drop exceeded limits by a considerable margin. The error was discovered and corrected by another Mechanic later on Day 0 at about XA:00 during an operations check. This Mechanic then reached out to me; and informed me of what he had found in a constructive and helpful manner. The condition caused by this error is one that could have caused substantial risk to all onboard in the event of decompression or similar incidents; if it had not been found. I must more carefully read the instructions laid out in the AMM; and take steps to be more positive that I am putting aircraft equipment into the condition intended and necessary.
I was completing the Blade Lube card and once it was completed; the work order had no active tasks in the work package. The Color X Bar was not present on the work package but no active tasks were present either. I looked into the Labor section of the Work Order and saw a task card was still active but unable to be completed. I approached my supervisor because I wasn't sure what I needed to do to fix this. My supervisor contacted another department and informed me that the card was an error and that planning had removed it.The Next day; I was informed that the aircraft was stopped in another City. The first thing I asked was if I needed to file a safety report. I was told that due to it being fixed and a paperwork issue that a safety report wasn't necessary. On Date; I was asked to attend a meeting about Aircraft X and was informed that this was a more significant paperwork issue and that I needed to file a safety report.
Lead assigned me and Person A to gear door checks on Aircraft X. We slugged the gear in prep for the test. I was on the ground while Person A and Inspector Person B went to the cockpit. I took off door locks; and at this time the locks were still on the gears. I cleared hydraulics; closed gear doors. Then informed by Person A that the slugs needed to be removed; to be in the correct configuration and then reinstalled. I put the slugs back on and informed the cockpit and Person A started the test. I was standing by the right gear and saw the actuator attempt to raise the gear; with it flexing slightly-at that point I realized the locks had been removed from the gear. I turned towards the nose and it had begun to retract. The aircraft had lowered and came to rest on the right hand door stand with the weight of the aircraft supported by the entry door resting on the door stand; it stayed this way for 30-45 seconds until the right entry door broke at the fitting and the entire nose hit the ground.
The aircraft had a propeller strike [over 5 years ago] about 1;100 hours time since new. The engine was removed and sent to an aircraft engine shop for disassembly inspection and reassembly. The aircraft/engine was returned to service and operated for about three hundred hours on the magneto (6350) which then failed; the magneto was repaired/yellow tagged and returned to service. At that time the magneto adapter LW19096 did not disengage so the replacement of the magneto was routine.About 500 hours time in service; the (6393) magneto was removed for service bulletin. The LW19096 part disengaged from the magneto and the drive gear. We removed the LW19096 noticing that it did not match the picture; which should have been included bearing 67542. We then assumed we screwed up and searched the oil sump with camera; magnets; suction without any bearings or fragments found. We pulled the quick drain and used a camera to search inside; no joy. We pulled the oil screen; and no fragments were found. Finally; we cut the oil filter and again; found no metal. Frustrated; we pulled the other magneto and disengaged the LW19096 and found no bearing 67542. We have concluded that the engine shop removed the bearing for NDT (Non-Destructive Testing) and never replaced them; the bearings are press fit and must be removed with a puller. No 67542 bearings were on the new parts list in the logbook.The O540 and IO540 require bearings to support one end of the magneto drive gear. I am aware of one other instance where bearing 67542 has been omitted and the engine was full of metal fragments from the LW19096 was vibrating against the case.
During routine disassembly of flight controls for painting; we found all flight control pivot point bearings either just fell apart when removed from aircraft or were completely frozen when further inspection was preformed. After reading the maintenance manual we found that there is not a life span or time limit in service for these bearings that clearly have a time limit; no inspection and no continued airworthiness for this time limited part; and this part can not be serviced so it must have a time in service time limit and it has none according to the manufacture. This is a primary flight control bearings and a life threatening problem. I feel an emergency AD should be given; for all aircraft over 10 years old for inspection of all flight control bearings.
I and another AMT removed ViaSat radome from Aircraft X. While removing the fasteners; two of the fasteners I removed nut plates spun. These nut plates were side by side on trailing edge. So I did the temp repair per [Company repair document]. And sent the plane on its way. From what I remember there was another fastener with RTV [sealant] that was more than four fasteners away from the two that I put on. Since it had RTV; I was under the impression that it had its own [fastener].
I am an Avionics Lead Technician and had men assigned to work a Number 11 spoiler harness change. In an attempt to expedite the job; retrieved a scissor lift and while raising into position; sustained damage to TE right OB flap not realizing lift was not in far enough.
Day 0; maintenance management robbed #1 engine LH reverser translating sleeve from a serviceable #1 engine LH thrust reverser assembly Company part number (P/N) XX-XXXX-X-XXXX; this thrust reverser was made serviceable over a month prior on Repair Order# XXXXXXX.Robbed #1 engine LH thrust reverser sleeve Company P/N XX-XXXX-X-XXXY; was installed on Aircraft X without maintenance management following General Maintenance Manual (GMM) XX-XX-XX process; that is to fill out robbed unit tag and to make a serviceable tag after verifying the serviceable condition of the removed part. Also per GMM; the quality department Inspector is required to complete computer transactions to update removal and installation record of rotable part.Stores receiving storekeeper was notified to make serviceable tag for robbed #1 engine LH thrust reverser translating sleeve after Technician installed on aircraft (storekeeper is not responsible for the serviceability of any robbed part; that is the responsibility of the Technician removing the robbed part).Storekeeper also completed the removal transaction in the computer system for the robbed #1 engine LH reverser sleeve.Maintenance management; stores never followed the GMM XX-XX-XX process and quality department failure to support the removal and installation process (computer transactions; off log and on log of thrust reverse sleeve).GMM XX-XX-XX Item-XA Pg.1 through Pg.10 basically states the Technician removing or installing a robbed part or component from an aircraft is responsible for compliance as outline in this GMM; also GMM Item XA (13) states robbing a rotable component from another rotable component such as engine; APU or landing gear; requires computer transactions. Signee assigned to the component installation will be responsible to complete all required entries (This was not accomplished by quality department).Making leadership responsible for not adhering to GMM procedures; too many departments never read the GMM on robbed components; putting pressure on workers just to get the aircraft back in service regardless of the situation; even when they have no knowledge of what the process is. For example the storekeepers who have never got involved in robbed parts before and are now told it is now their job. The Company needs to stop taking short cuts and get serious with keeping their standards at a high level.
On the date on Aircraft X; Engineering Order was accomplished from step 5 to end of the Engineering Order at the hangar. The oil tank was flushed and replenished twice. 3 oil samples were to be taken: 1st sample after idle run; 2nd sample after high power run; 3rd sample after idle run again. After the last replenishment; the engine was ran at IDLE power for 10 minutes. After the idle run; the last oil sample was taken. No leaks found; after inspecting the area; spacers and hardware were found on the inside of the outboard cowling; the securing hardware was reinstalled on the thrust reverser actuator oil line. This deviation from closing the fan cowls may have been a distraction from properly securing the oil cap. The aircraft was sent to the gates. Refer to log page #XXXXXXX for maintenance information.
Was working Aircraft X with a open log for right ram air full open light during flight. Log page XXXXXXX. After troubleshooting we decided to defer using MEL 21-XX-X; which was previously applied week and a half earlier ref log page XXXXXXY. After securing the forward SRADA (Stationary Ram Air Door Actuator); I started to work the aft SRADA. Found linkage part number C21009-2; S/N XXXXXXX still installed from previous deferral in ZZZ. After removing linkage; We performed ops checks with success. Signed the plane off and it left.
Aircraft X was in ZZZ and had a fault on the Integrated drive generator and an ELEC GEN OFF EICAS Advisory message. The techs applied MEL 24-XX-X. There is concern with the T/S.
I was given a gate call tonight on a MAX 8 for a maintenance light. I am a probationary mechanic with helicopter experience and King Air experience. I have no 737 or big jet experience; none the less I went out with confidence in my abilities of reading the manuals and the few months of experience on the aircraft. AMT 2 another probationary mechanic with 4 months of experience on the aircraft came to help me out to the best of his abilities; He also has only 4 months of 737 experience. We arrived at the aircraft and I have personally never worked with the Multi-Functional Display (MFD) but tried to work my way through it. We found that there was a #2 thrust reverser fault. We were first going to troubleshoot the TR (Thrust Reverser) by cycling it and running a bite test. Unfortunately before we got to that we directed by the lead mechanic to defer the #2 TR. So we started looking into the deferral procedure for the #2 TR in which me and AMT 2 have never performed before. We started with adding the inboard TR lock to the #2 ENG then came back up the ramp to read more into the deferral procedure. We had the gate personnel hassling us on how long it will take along with the flight attendant who was very impatient with us. We then added safety wire to the #2 TR to restrict forward movement and then I got on the phone with maintenance control to verify all the procedures were done properly. We then downgraded the aircraft to CAT 1 status and proceeded to fill out the paperwork along with the aircraft log book paperwork. At this point we were approached by the gate attendant who asked 'how much longer'. We proceeded to say we are just doing paperwork and will let you know but then the pilot said 'well if you guys are just doing paperwork we can start boarding so by the time you are done the aircraft would be boarded'. We finished the paperwork and added the correct placarding and sent the aircraft on its way fully confidant for the safety of the passengers and crew. It wasn't till later in the shift that AMT 2 informed me that we never locked out the outboard TR with the lockout bolt. We immediately went to supervision to notify them of the situation. I contribute this to a lack of training on the aircraft. I have never deferred a thrust reverser in my career in aviation and felt thrown to the wolves. We were pressured by the flight crew and the gate personnel. We believed that we performed everything correctly but found a missed step in our deferral.
ZZZ Maintenance facility received main cabin door steps for a BeechJet 400XP. Prior to installing the steps on the aircraft the technician verified part number in the manufactures Illustrated Parts Catalog (IPC). It was found that the part number received was not effective for our serial number of aircraft. The technician notified maintenance control of this discrepancy in hopes that they had documentation from the manufacturer stating we could use the part number received. Maintenance control told the technician that we are allowed to use all the part numbers of stairs in the IPC no matter the effectivity. They could not provide any documentation showing this from the manufacturer. After phone calls from the manufacturer they stated they did not have any documentation showing all stairs were applicable to all serial number of aircraft. Maintenance control continued to try and pressure the technician into making a bad decision and install the stairs on the aircraft without documentation because they said and I quote 'We have been doing it like that for years.' This creates a bad culture; an unsafe aircraft condition and noncompliance with the manufacturer manual.Encourage maintenance control to comply with the manufacturer maintenance manual at all cost.
On Day 0 I was sent on a field trip to ZZZ along with 3 other AMT's to work on Aircraft X on a logbook deferral sheet for cabin passenger service unit (PSU) emergency oxygen generators containers installed with wrong configuration throughout the cabin. Originally 9 right hand oxygen generator containers had been installed on left hand side of aircraft; and 11 left hand oxygen generator containers on the right hand side of the aircraft. Me and my field trip crew from ZZZ1 had agreed with Maintenance Control to properly replace the misinstalled emergency oxygen generator containers previously mentioned with new units effective to aircraft and proper position per company manual drawing XXXXXXXXXX; in accordance with Aircraft Maintenance Manual (AMM) XX-XX-XX for emergency oxygen generator container replacement and AMM XX-XX-XY for emergency oxygen generator replacement in order to safely perform the task. However; during our rest time in the hotel; the ZZZ base manager and crew chief instructed AMT's to swap generator containers from wrong location to the correct one. This task was performed on an extremely unsafe condition due to the absence of safety ring part number (PN) XXXXXXXXXXXXXX and insertion tool pin PN XXXXXX required on step X of procedure Y of AMM XX-XX-XY-XXX-XXX-X. Running into the risk of inadvertently activated the emergency oxygen generators and cause personnel injury or equipment damage; as this oxygen generators will get extremely hot when activated. This actions from the ZZZ crew also created unnecessary work as the emergency oxygen generator-container assembly on locations X; Y; and Z had to be replaced after the ZZZ crew damaged them. The 3 unserviceable O2 generator- container assembly were found by us (the ZZZ1 field trip crew) just laying on the aircraft floor unattended without safety pin on generators; on my opinion a very risky action.Cause -This actions were mainly caused due to the orders of the ZZZ base maintenance managers along with the crew chief involved on this manner with the motive of getting the aircraft back in service quicker than expected.Suggestions - Follow AMM and safety procedures to prevent accidents. Managers should follow company procedures even when it makes the job a bit more time consuming.
Vacuum pump was changed due to failure; left bottom stud threaded out when nut stuck on stud. Pump and new gasket installed and stud threaded back into case and tightened as well as other 3 nuts. Work completed by a new apprentice; 2 months on the job; under supervision of A&P / IA (Inspection Authorization). Work inspected by A&P and ground run; idle to approximately 1500 RPM; completed for approximately 4 to 5 minutes. No leak noted and vacuum functioned normally. Aircraft departed and approximately 15 minutes into the flight; pilot noticed oil streaming from cowling and pressure fluctuating. Engine was shut down and aircraft landed without incident. Cowling was removed and discovered the lower left stud for vacuum pump was loose and oil was streaming from gasket area where gasket was blown out. Removed pump and removed loose stud. Cleaned and inspected case and stud. Reinstalled stud with sealant to proper depth. Reinstalled pump with new gasket and tightened hardware to specifications. Ground run at power for several minutes and taxi back to hangar for a total of approximately 15 minutes run time. No leaks noted.Suspect the stud may not have been fully seated and was not allowing the pump flange to sit flat and seal gasket. Checked stud height against the others on the stud repair and confirmed it was seated to the same depth. Studs did not touch pump housing. Suspect that during inspection of work the IA saw the 4 nuts and studs but not the stud height and the engine run was not long enough to allow the leak to progress to a point it could blow the gasket out. Had engine been run at power for a longer period of time the gasket may have blown out on the ground run and the leak noted. Full power runs for an extended - temperature permitting - period of time should be conducted to verify leak checks and a closer inspection of hardware would have possibly discovered stud height issue. Log entry mistake was made for date and Hobbs time. Aircraft has a Garmin EIS (Engine Indication System) and records total; flight; [and] left and right engine times. The wrong time was entered in the program and printed with log entries with incorrect dates. The program is new to the company and all the subtle differences and processes have not been fully learned. Corrected log entries were generated and provided to the customer.
On arrival at ZZZZ; we were carrying out maintenance; whilst in the E&E bay the 'SLAT ELET MOT PWR' CB D8 was found open and collared with a streamered LOTO (Lock Out Tag Out) tag on the P200-R panel; D8. This would not have been picked up by the flight crew as this is the CB for the alternate slat drive system which is only used in an abnormal/emergency situation. There was no active MEL or evidence of work on slat sys or any systems in the past 90 days. On discussion with Maintenance Control we agreed on resetting the CB and carrying out a system function test of the alternate slat drive to confirm normal ops with no further action required.
EA (Engineering Authorization) doesn't require sufficient fuel nozzle leak check to prevent possible in-service engine fires. Nitrogen leak check with a leak test solution is a CFM best practice" but has not been adopted by Company A in this EA; nor has Boeing included it in the remove and replace of the nozzles in their AMM (Aircraft Maintenance Manual). The nitro leak check can be found in the adjustment/test section just after fuel nozzle section. This nitrogen leak test needs to be included in the Leap 1B Fuel Nozzle post replacement work card.Proof is a recent incident. During the required "idle leak check" after full set of fuel nozzles were replaced; our technicians discovered an oil leak; but no fuel leak. After a 70% part power engine run using bag method at drain lines; a significant fuel leak developed in the hot section. Other report [from weeks ago] of hot section fires support the need to do a best practice leak check. In the interim while tooling and leak detector liquid are on order; I feel need to require EA be revised to require a high power engine run after fuel nozzles are replaced or proper nitrogen test equipment tooling and leak detector can be used.Suggested resolution - an immediate resolution. In the interim; while tooling and leak detector liquid are on delay due to availability of leak check - not owned - and tooling repairs needed; I relay this feedback from the technicians on the floor: Require EA be revised to require a high power engine run after fuel nozzles are replaced and a subsequent opening of the core cowls to inspect for fuel stains; leaks in manifold; and nozzles area."
Report subject - Left C-Duct Thrust Reverser Harness. Reason for report. To correct and update IPC (Illustrated Parts Catalog) parts lists; assembly instructions; and associated illustrations. Prevent wrong part number installation and possible malfunction of associated wiring and aircraft thrust reverser system. Engineering request to revise the associated work order has been made and corrections have been agreed to and process to revise has been initiated.Primary issue is for the backshell on Connector 905P. The harness installation requires a 90-degree backshell for Connector 905P per IPC. The 90-degree backshell provides less bend radius for the wire versus a straight backshell which would make it susceptible to higher stress and possible malfunction of the wire. Associated parts lists and illustrations show a straight backshell but should reflect a 90-degree backshell on all IPCs and illustrations.Connector 905P connects to the left thrust reverser stow and lock proximity sensor. This is a critical indication for the flight crew. Suggested resolution - work with Airbus; Company A; Company B to correct and update IPC parts lists; assembly instructions; and associated illustrations.Report subject - Right C-Duct Thrust Reverser Harness. Reason for report - to correct and update IPC (Illustrated Parts Catalog) parts lists; assembly instructions; and associated illustrations. Prevent wrong part number installation and possible malfunction of associated wiring and aircraft thrust reverser system. Engineering request to revise the associated work order has been made and corrections have been agreed to and process to revise has been initiated.Primary issue is for the backshell on Connector 904P. The harness installation requires a 45-degree backshell for Connector 904P per IPC. The 45-degree backshell provides less bend radius for the wire versus a straight or 90-degree backshell; which would make it susceptible to higher stress and possible malfunction of the wire. Associated parts lists and illustrations show a straight or 90-degree but should reflect a 45-degree backshell on all IPCs and illustrations.Connector 904P connects to the right thrust reverser stow and lock proximity sensor and is a critical indication for the flight crew. Suggested resolution - work with Airbus; Company A; Company B to correct and update IPC parts lists; assembly instructions; and associated illustrations.
On Day 0 working Aircraft X performed re installation of vertical stabilizer tip (4) aft fairing. I was notified on Day 1 that Aircraft X had flown multiple flight legs with two Circuit Breakers (C/Bs) not closed. On rethinking the task I did not think requirement of pulling C/Bs for aft portion of tip which do not contain VOR antennas failed to follow all steps per the Aircraft Maintenance Manual (AMM).
I have been performing maintenance on this experimental exhibition category aircraft that I own. I believed I could perform the required military phase inspections myself due to it being experimental. I performed maintenance on an experimental plane I built. I have been informed the condition inspections needed to be signed off by an A&P mechanic; which they were not.   While I was flying the aircraft it experienced a loss of power and was damaged during landing. There were no injuries but it is possible the loss of power was maintenance related. I am not sure yet.
I was doing a 100-hour inspection and found that the uplock roller was not moving freely on lefthand landing gear and per 100-hour inspection; it had to move freely. I made a write-up about it not moving freely and decided to change the uplock brackets and roller pin in accordance with the CMM (Component Maintenance Manual). I had thought that I had correctly installed the uplock brackets but I mistakenly installed them upside down. Uplock brackets were mistakenly installed upside down. Do a gear swing of the aircraft to make sure that the job was done correctly.
Flight crew wrote up both flight deck escape rope compartments opened on their own; both ropes fell out of compartments. Mechanics found both escape ropes unattached to air-frame; and thus would not have been able to be used for their functions in the event of an emergency. Also found both ropes without cotter pins installed; thus allowing anchors to release anchor plate. Found on Aircraft X prior to departure for Flight XXXX on Day 0. Review task or task cards or work areas involving dual maintenance on flight deck escape ropes.
Aircraft arrived at ZZZ for a scheduled-check scheduled for the specified timeframe. During this check I signed off the install inspection of the body torque tube for one of the doors found with the discrepancies. This was discovered yesterday at our vendor at ZZZ1; both the L4 and R4 door assist actuator B nuts were found disconnected when the sidewall panels just forward of the L4 and R4 door cut outs were removed on the aircraft. They were both found with the red streamers still attached. This aircraft was inducted to ZZZ1 for scheduled check several months later. Due to the elapsed time; I cannot recall the exact cause of the discrepancy. Multiple maintenance operations occurring at the same time or overlooked maintenance steps is the assumption.
On the weekend of Day 0 - Day 3 I was performing several maintenance tasks on Aircraft X; one of those being lubrication of slat; ball drive screw nut; and slat roller assy.  I was alone performing this task for both wings.  I opened each panel; performed lube task; then closed access. Ref A300 AMM XX-XX-XX.  The aircraft departed Day 3 night from ZZZ1-ZZZ.  Upon landing and walk-around inspection performed by pilot [they informed us] that two inboard leading edge panels were missing.  Field service was sent up to ZZZ and verified all hardware was installed on the aircraft from where the panel left.  When the panel left the aircraft it tucks underneath the panel outboard of it and it made that one depart the aircraft as well.  To my understanding; I performed the task at hand correctly and closed access correctly.  There is a bracket on the aircraft that is either missing; or damaged that caused the blow out panel to leave the aircraft; and other aircraft I believe have been reported to have that damaged; or missing as well.
EO (Engineering Order) XXXXXXXX issued for A321nx aircraft. Problem wasn't addressed until after potential catastrophic failure. Aircraft had an air interrupt. Lost green hydraulic system. Had to deploy the gear manually and EO was not accomplished at this time. The failure for this item is exactly why this EO has been issued for this fleet.Cause: EO not accomplished as a result of this failure. The replaced part is the one that needs to be upgraded in the EO to avoid a hydraulic fluid loss.Solution: Every aircraft that this EO applies to should have the EO accomplished immediately. Waiting until a potential catastrophic failure is reckless. Even after this failure management still didn't do the EO; stated it would take too long.
#4 Main landing gear (MLG) Wheel Assembly was low tire pressure to the point where both #4 and #3 MLG tires had to be changed right before departure time. The cause of this was the #4 MLG wheel Assembly valve stem not being torqued from back shop and was so loose that it came off when removing the valve core removal tool. The valve stem assembly on the 737 MAX fleet MLG wheels do not have any safety device like safety wire. This is a dangerous design flaw. I would consider having an audit of whatever back shop works these tires and to make the valve stem safetied. Maybe make this an inspection task item for the back shop and maybe also add a torque stripe after torquing.
#1 eng was deactivated and placed on MEL (XXXXXX) due to #1 eng High Pressure Shut-Off Valve being on MEL XXXXXXY). There was an item that was deferred (XXXXXZ) that had to be fixed and required reactivating engine for sheet metal to gain access. After reactivating #1 eng and deploying. realized that engine was working. When I saw that the original report was Thrust REV 1 did not deploy; figured it was OK to close log as operations checking normally both deploying and stowing. It was brought to my attention the next day that the log should never have been closed because it was tied to the High Pressure Shut-Off Valve being on MEL. I closed the MEL due to the original PIREP and did not notice the updates on the log.
Two other mechanics and I serviced IDGs (integrated drive generator) IAW (In Accordance With) the PS (Periodic Service Check) check because it was low. We used the correct browser and serviced it properly IAW the manual; we all double checked the work to make sure it was serviced properly. During flight the flight crew got a message saying the IDG temperature was too high. After landing the mechanics began troubleshooting the problem and saw a reddish color fluid; they believe its X but we don't have a X browser we only have a green browser (Y) and a purple browser (skydrol). When we serviced the IDG we opened up the lid of the browser and made sure it was [the] right fluid. As of right now there is a sample of the fluid in the IDG that was sent out to be inspected for any contaminates.Cause: Someone somewhere most likely serviced IDGs with a contaminated browser or serviced the IDG with a browser that said Y but had skydrol or X inside.Suggestions: Opening and emptying the browser to see the bottom half if there's any contaminates inside.
Aircraft X; Person 2 and I were tasked to Remove and replace the inboard right hand wing fuel pump. Following the Aircraft Maintenance manual reference; we were up to the step to removing the pump. The fuel pump came out with ease using the tool that was called out in the Aircraft Maintenance manual; as soon as the pump was coming out the slide valve; the slide valve started to fall out of the wing; fuel started pouring right out of the wing; we tried to re install the fuel pump and slide valve to stop the fuel from coming out and was unsuccessful; so we got out of the way; we called our Leads and supervisor right away and the fire department was notified immediately.Cause: I believe that the reason this event occurred because the slide valve retaining pin malfunctioned allowing the slide valve to come out of the wing.Solution: Before removing the fuel pump; to transfer the fuel out of the wing and to inspect the slide valve retaining pin for damage and functionality.
Person 2; Person 4 and I [Person 1] were assigned to Aircraft X. Landing gears doors were already in the down position. The Lead [Person 3] assigned us with removing the accumulator that was; causing a hydraulic leak. The Lead and I pulled breakers; depressurize the system; removing the head pressure. We removed the bottle placed on the table; replace the valve and packing reinstalled the bottle pressurize the system and the Lead pushed in all the breakers. then we refilled the green hydraulic reservoir. The accumulator still leaked; we received a new accumulator we replaced it; Person 2 and the Lead proceeded to go upstairs to the flight deck. The Lead was in an hurry to get the job done before night shift came on. The Lead stowed the manual gear drop and proceeded to turn on the system approx XE00 hours. At that time I was next to the green hydraulic system reservoir I went around to where the ladder that was inside the wheel well to look if the accumulator was leaking at that time before even knew it; the landing gear and ladder was lifting up and pushing me towards the landing gear wheel. My legs were caught in between the ladder. Person 4 next to me; screamed to get out of the way I wasn't quick enough. He tried radio over the radio to stop for me. I was able to get one foot out and get out of the way from the wheel; and then the ladder went up into the wheel well with the landing gear closing behind it.Suggestion: Slowing down.
The missing insulation blanket in the aft pit was causing temperatures above 112 degrees in lavatory area. The temperature at the duct in the aft cargo area where there was no insulation was reading 260F; possible fire hazard in an enclosed area. There is no value for experience techs. Maintenance Technician should begin their career by exploring the great learning experience a hanger environment can bring at the same time helping out the airlines with delays and cancellations.
Engine bolt located after jamb of #1 engine twist grip and subsequent trouble shooting with magnet in inaccessible area adjacent to engine idle cutoff inner bellcrank. Bolt appears to be un-installed with anti-seize present and no safety wire installed in head of 12-point engine bolt. Last engine maintenance in area Day 1 per documented maintenance records. Installation if engine verified. No other FOD found. Use of borescope; visually thru open panels; or magnet after disassembly/reassembly of engine components with performed.
Oxygen bottle was low; needed to be serviced. When servicing bottle found the batteries in the bottle corroded; possible causing a spark in the bottle.Note the airplane number was just generated (aircraft that the bottle came off is unknown) for this form to be completed. Have the B787 bottle checked more frequently (there is a longer time frame on the B787 bottles-due to the bottle); hydrostatic test and due date are longer times than the standard bottles on the other fleets. This B787 only gets checked when it needs servicing.Note I have seen (2) other times during servicing of this style of bottle-that had corroded batteries.  They were both found because the test that gives you a green light was not coming on.
During routine ETOPS check found door/panel on #1 engine inboard thrust reverser upper hinge beam aft small door missing.Door was missing from panel. [Document] does not allow mid or aft access doors to be missing.There have been countless number of findings/damages/missing parts etc which causes un-necessary delays and sometimes cancellation. A lot of these can be prevented when a qualified technician does a walk around in a timely fashion. Allow all line mechanics to do general walkarounds on all flights..not just on ETOPS flights or scheduled service checks. mechanics should be allowed to do a general walk around on all through flights that come in and out of there assigned gates. Letter says no more walkarounds due to staffing levels at ZZZ....ok now staffing levels are back to normal..we have hired 100s of new mechanics..also see updated and extensive ramp agent walk around below....why pay a mechanic to do a walk around when you can pay a ramp agent to do it and save lots of money.....this is not safe because ramp agents do not know what they are looking at; they are not trained; they are not qualified.........not trying to rant here..........just trying to emphasize on the importance of safety in this industry....its all about customer and aircraft safety..........  Company X is all about safety -- so what happened to safety now?
Gulfstream III departed our maintenance facility on Day 0 following replacement of the Emergency Brake Valve.  After the replacement valve was installed; the installation was inspected. All 4 Brakes were bled. The Chief Pilot for this aircraft is also a training instructor. He also holds an A&P Maintenance Certificate. Maintenance hooked up 2 each Hydraulic flex lines in reverse. We informed the pilot that we had not performed the operational check portion of the valve installation. He stated that he wanted to do that himself and wanted to do a test flight following that. After the test flight he taxied to the local FBO and put the aircraft in position for a XA00 next day departure.The pilot never performed the operational check of the valve prior to test flight or prior to the XA00-departure next day. The checklist was not followed for either flight which calls for 'Parking Brake Set / Aux Pump On and indicating 3;000 psi'. If the Aux Pump had ever been operated the aircraft would not have been able to taxi the with brakes locked up.The before landing checklist calls for Aux Pump On and 3;000 indicated prior to landing.Since the lines were crossed this built up 3;000 psi to the brakes and caused all 4 to be locked up prior to touchdown. (see prevent situation / correct the situation below).Maintenance facility made policy change: Any component removed having more than one line will have all lines marked with color coded tie straps / color coded paint marker / color coded inspectors seal or tape to prevent any crossed connections.Only the Inspector is approved to remove the markings once verified to be correct. Chief Pilots are no longer allowed to perform operational checks of components replaced without maintenance personnel witnessing the event.It's easy to get complacent; the crew members need to actually follow the checklist.
The IDG's (Integrated Drive Generator) aluminum drain plug which gets torqued at block 2 step XX is often found cracked due to previous over torquing and/or previous use of improper tool (e.g. channel locks) as evidenced by mangled drain plug. An easy confirmation that this aluminum plug is cracked is: #1/ during increased tightening; suddenly the effort decreases; and #2/ visual inspection of crack under naked eye or magnifying glass.Suggest adding to block 2 step XX warning: do not over torque drain plug. If during torque sequence the effort required suddenly decreases; stop; and replace drain plug as 'suspected cracked'.""
During a LOSA (Line Operations Safety Assessment) observation; mechanic found a #4 brake rotor drive clip cracked. While awaiting parts I inspected the brake and found a total of seven of the rotor drive clips cracked. Got with several other technicians including the grave shift new hire trainer and was told they are seeing this problem on MAX aircraft quite common; and occasionally on new gens.Might need to address the material used for the rotor drive clips! on this particular brake; every crack was found on the last rotor disk leaving me to believe it is a heat issue.
During the replacement of an engine harness on Aircraft X; on engine #2; a connector was mistakenly removed. Due to the significant amount of AMT's present at the time of the job and trying to get the plane out on time; it may have been inadvertently missed during the installation process.Suggestions: Be more organized and not allow time constraints to keep me from being certain with work.
Fuel tank entry mechanics found heavy corrosion on the attaching hardware and impact fuel panels 640cb and 640bb.
I was performing scheduled maintenance on a Bell 206L1+ for a 300-hour event. I completed the Tail Rotor section and all that entailed. Our maintenance facility was recently made aware that the pilot was performing his preflight inspection after receiving the aircraft from scheduled maintenance when he noticed the tail rotor gearbox oil cap was not installed. I was the individual who installed the cap; and another AMT verified its installation by performing a Safety and Security Check (SSC). At this point; the aircraft was looked at by two individuals who verified the cap was installed. After receiving notification of the cap not being installed; we talked amongst ourselves here at our maintenance facility and there are several other people; to include 2 pilots; that saw that the cap was installed prior to the Operational Check Flight (OCF) and the aircraft's departure from our facility to its destination. The aircraft underwent ground-runs and an OCF prior to leaving our facility with no visible signs of oil coming from the gearbox or anywhere else.
Aircraft arrived in ZZZ just after XA00 with a pilot report of lightning strike. The maintenance crew consulted with Maintenance Control and it was determined that the aircraft could continue in service; with reference to the AMM XX-XX-XX-XXX-XXX-X; for two flight cycles.  I believe this is incorrect due to the fact that there was extensive damage to the nose area of the aircraft.Cause: The event occurred in my opinion; due to the fact that there were many aircraft out of service at the time; and that the aircraft was needed to cover the trip.Suggestion: Follow all maintenance manual procedures.
On the night of Day 0 going into Day 1; a few of us were assigned to work the OTS (Out of Service) aircraft for a flap lock issue. The report generated from the aircraft stated the warning message (F/CTL FLAPS LOCKED; SFCS). Failure messages included: (FLP 1 CHK LH MECH DRIVE; AND FLP 2 CHK LH MECH DRIVE). We failed to receive any kind of turnover due to the fact that morning shift was the last to touch the aircraft; and swing shift was waiting on parts; so by the time the midnight crew arrived; we had no direction on where to start besides searching through scattered paperwork in search of where to begin maintenance. We concluded that a previous shift found damage to the track 3 system and based off our manual instructions for the associated faults; we proceeded as such to inspect for more damage. By the end of the shift; we discovered more underlying damage of the flap system which included track 3 and track 4 (the outboard flap); and potential damage to the inboard flap system (track 1 and 2). Us AMTs created a copious amount of non-routine items for tracks 3 and 4; and nothing for track 1 and 2. We were told by a crew chief to hold off on writing up a potentially worn attaching link of the track 2 inboard flap; due to the fact that since track 3 was removed; it could have caused play in the inboard flap system. We were told that the next shift will check out track 1 and 2 when track 3 was reassembled. This is a failure on our behalf to write this particular item up. When the aircraft left ZZZ; we proceeded to check documentation; and did not find anything regarding inspection of the LH track 1 and 2 system; but rather a GVI (General Visual Inspection) of the LH flap system; in which we are unsure if that was included. The following night after we were assigned to the aircraft; management decided that the crew chief from the day before will no longer be able to have that aircraft; and they wanted a whole new crew to be assigned to it. Our opinion was that due to the immense amount of write ups the day prior; management felt as if it caused an operational delay in production. Mind you; this is suspected by us AMTs. As techs searching for a flap failure; we felt as if there was an unjust pressure and judgement against us by scrupulously following the approved maintenance manual references. This feeling of a 'push' in order to have forward progress in regard to aircraft repair seemed to become overwhelming as the night progressed. This type of operational pressure and feelings of being wanted to 'look the other way' is a dangerous work practice when attempting to make possibly consequential airworthiness decisions; especially regarding an emergency landing flight control issue with our innocent passengers onboard.Cause: Saturation of write ups for damage found; and pressure for forward progress regarding work production in order to get the aircraft out as soon as possible for revenue service. Contributing factors regarding why this happened also includes preemptive decision making by our crew chief without reference material regarding our track 2 inboard flap concern. Solution: 'Judgement free' expectation for writing up suspected damage or confirmed damage/failures. Management pressure expectations to be reduced; due to the fact that the AMTs and Crew Chiefs have the ultimate and final say on airworthiness decisions. We are told that management expects write ups and issues throughout the night on an OTS aircraft; but in turn show the opposite by failure of their word by inducing pressure. Most of these situations when later talked about seem to be disregarded as not a big deal and expected to happen based off experience of what supervision has seen; but when it comes to the actual event occurring; this ideology changes.
Aircraft X had an open discrepancy for the RH wing INBD fuel pump fuel leak. As the crew chief assigned with the aircraft; I requested a defuel of the aircraft because it had 22;000lbs total fuel. The Aircraft Maintenance Manual (AMM) does not call for a defuel but I decided it was best as a precaution. The aircraft was eventually defueled to 13;000 lbs total fuel but was imbalanced with fuel in the right wing tank. I instructed the mechanic to pump all of the fuel into the center tank which resulted in roughly 8000lbs of fuel in the center tank and the remaining fuel in the left wing. Once the fuel was moved; the mechanic began the removal procedure of the fuel pump in accordance with the AMM. All precautions and steps were followed. During the removal of the pump; the slide valve remained on the pump and was pulled from the wing tank as one unit. The slide valve was tightly sealed with O-rings on the fuel pump which prevented it from separating from the pump as it should have per the AMM. This caused a fuel leak from the wing. The mechanic immediately tried to stop the leak but was unable to successfully put the fuel pump back in place. He then contacted me by phone. I immediately went to the aircraft. I contacted management and was told that the fire department was already notified. Many mechanics; crew chiefs; and supervisors immediately got spill kits and attempted to contain the fuel. Mechanics were able to then separate the slide valve from the fuel pump on the ground and slide it into place on the wing to stop the leak. We then cleaned the spill.The slide valve is supposed to be locked in place by a flange. The flange is very small and easily worn; about the size of half a 3/16 washer. The pump was very sealed into the slide valve; so when it was removed; it came out as one assembly past the flange. In addition; the center fuel tank gravity fed fuel into the right wing which caused the large spill even after taking extra precautions to defuel the wing tank.Suggestions: There needs to be more details in the AMM as precautions to take when removing a fuel pump. The Aircraft Maintenance Manual does not suggest defueling the tank before removal of the pump. The Aircraft Maintenance Manual also does not caution in the removal procedures that on A321 aircraft the center fuel tank will gravity feed into the wing tanks if the center tank has less fuel. This spill could have been easily avoided if that precaution was present in the removal of the fuel pump reference.
In the recent weeks 2; 767 aircraft  have been removed from svc due to wear noted on the flap support fittings upper aft wheel well area. It appears that the blade seal attached to the landing gear door has been rubbing (vibrating) on the casting of the flap support fitting causing material loss. While evaluating damage as per SRM (Structural Repair Manual) the gate technicians were unsure of the limits provided .06 or just under a 1/16th of an inch. damage is across the casting lug. Detail  illustration mentions edge limits; but the illustration is not clear is edge the meeting point of the horizontal and vertical faces of the material or the horizontal face of the material. a better illustration needs to be included in the SRM. both ac were promptly removed from svc due to clean up and rework times would take too long on the gate and a different ac was swapped for the trip. On a separate observation of this specific srm; it states No typical repair to landing gear beam; FLAP SUPPORT FITTING; support link; upper and lower stabilizer support fitting AVAILABLE. Specific repairs will be provided based on service experience. this may be confusing as some amount of rework is allowed.I would like a clearer procedure inserted in the srm. this will make decisions quicker in the future on the serviceability of future damage noticed at this location.
The engine was installed on Aircraft X on Day 0. Prior to installation this engine went thru inspections and Maintenance at the engine shop. Seeing that the engine time was at 3597.22 hrs we (other base Mechanic) figured that the MO1 (Accessory Gearbox) had the updated front support (Support Assy") installed since any supports or MO1's over 2400 hrs were due replacement of the Support Assy. per Turbomeca Mandatory Service Bulletin; as noted in the engineering order. The inspection was not completed prior to being returned to the base for service. It was known that this Engineering Order (EO) requirement was listed on the maintenance due report under the "As Required" page but since we find other Inspections listed on the records that do not apply to the aircraft we figured it was there in error and we weren't concerned about it. During our airworthiness checks as one of our standard practice we would always look at the Support Assy pins but weren't documenting it in the aircraft log book or on the inspection form since we believed that this engine had the updated Support Assy installed. One day recently we had another Mechanic cover our base due to me being out on medical leave and the other Mechanic was out that day. The Temp Mechanic signed off the EO in the Aircraft Log Book. When I returned later from my medical leave I asked why was the EO signed off in the Log Book and figured that it was because it was on the records. At this time we decided to look further into the issue if the EO compliance was actually necessary. At this point the aircraft was already at the ZZZ Maintenance Facility out of service for numerous required AAIP Inspections. The other Mechanic and I went to the ZZZ facility and found that the Support Assy was the part number of a support that required the inspection and documentation of the EO and the inspection. As soon as we figured this out; we contacted our our lead AMT (Aircraft Maintenance Technician) and advised of the findings and error. Suggestions: A better review of records and log book entries after maintenance is performed away from home base."
ZZZ [Airport] field service aircraft XA41 Day 0. On Day 0 technicians was awarded emergency field service to ZZZ for aircraft 757-200 left wing dry bay leak. When tank access panel was opened a large piece of FOD fell out of hole. Upon further inspection of left fuel tank boost pump pickup screen area more FOD was found; appeared to be absorbent blankets totaling 4ea with a dimension of approx 32 in length and 14" wide. All FOD was removed from tank area. After a discussion with maintenance control it was determined that an inspection of [center] and [right] main tank be accomplished. Upon opening [center] tank access panel inspection of that bay revealed tooling left behind; Some type of pick approx 4" long. Inspection of right main tank did not reveal any FOD and boost pump screen pickup area clean. I would like to add that I have been a technician for over 15 years and over the years have found many items left behind by previous tank entries; but by far this discovery was one of the worst findings. This type of maintenance on our fleet is unacceptable and very concerning not only to me but all of us on the tank team. Thankfully this was found before the boost pump pickup screens became blocked resulting in engine flameout while operation under ETOPS.Suggestion: If this was the result of a third party contractor or vendor they too should be held to the same quality control standards that all technicians are held to. These clearance to close protocols are in place for this very reason and if not followed could result in a much worse outcome."
Inbound green system quantity low; checking history under several ATA Codes found a lot of history on this system over the last 2 weeks. Opened gear doors and found green system reservoir drain valve with an illegal fitting on it. Upon removing the illegal fitting I discovered Teflon tape wadded up inside the fitting that was used to try and stop the leak. The original drain valve was heavily damaged externally from someone using the wrong tools and someone ground down the surface for some reason. Upon removing the leaking Drain Valve I discovered the O'Ring was missing causing the original leak they were trying to cover up. Replaced Green System Drain valve and refilled reservoir per MM and released aircraft.If we have to service hydraulics we should be required to check history; on day 0; Station A had to use 1 gallon to service green and 2 days later it was serviced again and no one checked for leaks. We have to emphasize that using illegal parts and not using MM procedures will not be tolerated. Aircraft Maintenance Manual and Illustrated Parts Catalog must always be followed and complied with. This could have ended in a Diversion and serious consequences to passengers and crew. I believe if you review history you will find a mechanic who drained the reservoir recently and this probably the mechanic responsible for this. Aircraft was flown out of configuration for several flights.
On Day 0 during a periodic SVC (service) check. I got involve with both nose tire change. And got two apprentice mechanic's sent to help for the replace procedure. They replaced the tire under my supervision. And at the last minute I got involve with the procedure of all the s/n (serial number) and p/n (promissory note) to sign the log book. I went back to the office to complete the check of the logbook. To bring the logbook back to the airplane to avoid a delay. Thinking that the apprentice will clear and clean everything behind like taking the jack; the tires and removing the nose gear pin that they installed. But unfortunately they never removed the nose gear pin.  And I as the mechanic in charge sign the tire change paper work. The airplane took off and the nose gear never came up. Coming back to base for to removing the pin and securing pin and gear. Having a delay but getting the airplane back to service safely. That day on around XA:30 I fill a report and applied the submit part. And then went home. For my surprise early next day I have a phone call from my supervisor; telling me that the report didn't went true and I have only 48 hours to fill the report. I apologize of filling the report application on Day 6. Five days after due to a mayor surgery that was happening Day 1. And not able to come to work or perform the report.Suggestions: From now on I will double check every detail on the job I have to sign.
On Day 0; approximately XA:30 hr; Person A and I; took a turnover from dayshift on task of replacing right overwing slide bottle for time change.  Per work card and AMM (Aircraft Maintenance Manual). We started work card steps from start to end of task for removal per AMM; and steps on installation per AMM; next step is for avonics to do continuity check of bottle squib. We left [aircraft] to inform our crewchief; what need to be done. Around XD:00 hr; we got a called from avionic tech that while they were testing the continuity test; inadvertently blew to bottle and the slide. We then went back to aircraft to confirm and notified supervisor. Suggestion: Seems to me information on work card; EPAS squib test and AMM installation has conflicting reference.
I was troubleshooting an MEL on Aircraft X for LE flaps transit light; which throughout the night; I was finding more and more issues that could have been related to the issue; which was documented on the MEL fault. Relayed this info to My Lead and we discussed taking the plane out of service. Management was harassing us about talking to Maintenance Control about pulling it out of service- which Maintenance Control was going to do at this time. We explained to management that we thought it was a flight safety issue however they went behind our back and talked to Maintenance Control themselves; which resulted in carrying forward the MEL and canceling it from the package. In which they convinced them to allow the plane to fly. Afterwards; management said it was OK with Maintenance Control to finish up the work package and so we airworthiness release the plane. We asked management to make sure that the plane fly to a base with a field tech so that it could be looked at more thoroughly.Everything found is documented in the MEL work-package that was found.  Next time each individual issue that i find will be put into a separate write up so that stuff like this will not happen in future. I should be able to choose whether or not a plane is airworthy and not management.
I worked on the #2 engine change on the aircraft. I was informed last night aircraft X experienced an engine 2 thrust lever disagree caution ECAM message in flight that led to a diversion into ZZZ. It is my understanding that the mechanic that responded to the discrepancy at ZZZ found connector 407VC-A not completely engaged; and that is the supposed reason for the fault in flight. During the engine change; I was the mechanic that installed connector 407VC-A. I have installed these particular pylon connectors on A320 engine changes before and am familiar with the task. I make a point every time I perform maintenance to ensure I am following the current work card; and this task was no exception. I also have a personal habit of installing these pylon connectors left-to-right; ensuring each connector is tightened properly before moving on to the next one. When installing each connector; I use cannon plug pliers to ensure the plug is tightened securely and completely. When installing connector 406VC-A; which is located directly to the right of connector 407VC-A; I realized the connector 406VC-A was not engaging in its receptacle because it was routed too short when the engine was built up. During troubleshooting of this; a fellow mechanic and I decided to loosen and remove connector 407VC-A to give us more room to work. After adjusting several clamps on the harness attached to connector 406VC-A; we were able to engage connector 406VC-A. At this point; I stopped to reinstall and secure connector 407VC-A. We didn't want to remove connector 406VC-A after it was engaged; because we had spent upwards of 30-40 minutes trying to get this one connector to engage. I installed connector 407VC-A and tightened it securely with my cannon plug pliers; ensuring to the best of my knowledge that it was fully engaged and tight. I then proceeded to complete the installation of connector 406VC-A and the remaining pylon connectors in this area. After completing the installation of these pylon connectors; I double-checked my work to ensure everything was installed correctly at least three more times before leaving at the end of my shift. To the best of my knowledge; connector 407VC-A was installed properly and safe for flight. I take personal pride in my work and am not able to leave work that I've performed until I'm as sure as I can be that it is completed safely and properly.
When talking to vendor about work being done was made aware of faults after leaving station where aircraft X had much work accomplished including fuel tanks. Aircraft X had failed its test flight and then later pilots refused aircraft due to discrepancies between wing and FQIS (Fuel Quantity Indicating System) reading 7000lbs difference. Aircraft X was scheduled for maintenance in ZZZ where vendor found deficiencies in the work performed in the left wing wiring of fuel probes which were improperly installed not to specific Aircraft Maintenance Manual (AMM) routing and sealant work was in need of rework; left wing work was documented and corrected. Upon further troubleshooting left center tank was opened up and major debris was found; (absorbent mats; bottle; and metal funnel; along with sealant debris). This also was documented and corrected.Suggestion: Closer follow-up prior to closeup on fuel tanks by vendor and station inspection to follow General Maintenance Manual; AMM manuals for routing and general work performance. We were lucky that this did not cause an critical situation or crash as a result of fuel starvation.
After right engine change; found fuel leaking from Transient valve actuator. Robbed part from old removed engine and installed on airplane. At first since the valve actuator was leaking; I removed the valve off of the Transient actuator and found out per MM there is NO such partial installation I reassembled actuator on robbed valve for a complete valve / actuator installation. At this point I believe I installed the linkage backward on the valve. On engine run suspect valve stuck open and pressure built up in valve and blew part of Right thrust reverser top half off.
I am filling out this because I removed and replaced an Igniter on a RH engine IGN A per the Aircraft Maintenance Manual (AMM) XX-XX-XX. The ignitor was properly torqued per the AMM. Today I received a notice that the engine had an engine fire and they found the igniter not installed in the engine. The igniter was connected to the ignition lead but pulled from the engine. I do not know what cause the event because I am sure that I properly torqued the Igniter. I am unsure if the igniter cross threaded during the install.Suggestions: At this time I am unsure what caused this event. Won't know how to fix this event until further investigation shows what caused the igniter to be pulled from the engine.
Sent on a field trip to repair an aircraft; 1+2 MLG (Main Landing Gear) temps out of range with # 3+4. During troubleshooting found air in #3 & #4 brake assy which could cause uneven brake press and temp readings. Pilots requested a maintenance taxi before acceptance. I rode right seat as I has previously held run/taxi previously and felt comfortable but had lapsed. Person A was left seat as he was the only taxi/run qualified AMT. He took extra precaution and asked for an escort as he was uncomfortable with taxiing in an unfamiliar airport. He followed the escort and was checking the brakes to feel the operation. At one point he braked; the aircraft jerked left then launched to the right almost going into the grass (which we later found out the RT MLG did). Then we heard a loud squealing sound and stopped. The escort informed us the NLG (Nose Landing Gear) was sideways. Fire rescue verified there was no damage hindering travel back to the gate. Person A taxied the aircraft back to the gate. My function was oversight and radios; but was told the escort would be speaking with Person A directly through cell phone. I suspect there was another issue with brake system; or operator error. I can't distinguish at this time. We were pressed for time to release aircraft; and we were out of our comfort zones of what we do routinely. More detailed explanation of what to do after findings. Clearer comms with maintenance control regarding policy.
RH magneto was found lose and hanging on back of accessory gearbox after installation of new magneto. I initially installed and torqued the magneto and found the timing was off. At that point another technician brought the aircraft into the hangar and retimed the magneto. It seems that upon completion of that task the magneto did not get retorqued correctly after timing procedure was complete. Subsequently causing the magneto to slowly loosen from the accessory gear box.
While accomplishing the pre-departure check; I noticed the #4 mlg tire was low at 94psi. During the tire removal; I found the tire valve core assy was loose and I was able to remove it easily by hand. I believe that this is the cause of the chronic issue with the B737 MAX tire pressures always being low. Log Page X.We noticed that the valve core assy did not have loctite as required by the maintenance manual. Tire inflation valve installation reference: task XX-XX-XX-XXX-XXX. Maybe they should use safety wire to secure the valve core assy?
Aircraft came in with low hydraulics written up by the inbound flight crew. During my check; I noticed oil leaking from the Number 1 engine oil cap drain. The Number 1 engine oil cap o ring was brittle and broke when removed. This is the second aircraft with the same problem in the past month.
I was called out to acft XXXX because of a fuel imbalance see log X and Y. I called Maintenance Controller about the history of the fuel indication.. He said sump the acft to make sure there is no water in fuel tanks then apply MEL XXXXY...After numerous write ups on the fuel system blanking out and qty indication being wrong.. All fuel tanks where opened up and thats where all the problems start to show..see logs that where created....LOG ZLOG ALOG BLOG CLOG DLOG YLOG ELOG FLOG XLOG GLOG HLOG ILOG JLOG KLOG LLOG MLOG NJust too many logs to record.. There's more to add.The fuel qty failed on the test flight out of ZZZ Day 0 see log A is where all this started...With all the trash that was left in the fuel tanks we are very lucky that we did not have inflight shut-down...........Cause: There was an unbelivable amount of trash;(large white absorbent towels; large metal funnel gallon jug) materials found inside fuel tank ... Keep in mind that this acft was inducted into heavy check @ ZZZ .. Why was this not discovered by QC before giving ok to close the fuel tank.... How can someone give ok to close? .. I just can't beleive that is even possible!! It seems that a ok to close the fuel tanks was given without looking inside!!!! ..;.we must follow AMM requirements when fuel tanks are open....this is a inspection buy back to verify the fuel tanks are clean and empty before closing up....not sure how all this trash was left in the fuel tank.
Tasked to remove and replace a hpsov on aircraft X on Day 1. Reactivation procedures not completed even though cat status upgraded. During launch on Day 3 left engine hpsov eicas message appeared and and duct leak lights illuminated. After technician found Shorting plug was not removed and canon plug remained off of hpc. Maintenance removed the plug and installed canon plug calculated good.
Log page on inbound Aircraft X had 1100 hours on it; chain was too new for this to loosen due to normal stretching. Two days later I was informed of the same problem on Aircraft Y [with] 3400 hours.Suggestion: One-time check of aircraft in the group to see if this is a manufacturing issue.
at around XA:20; we were assigned to repo the aircraft from Gate XX to the hangar. after given clearance to push from Gate and position into [spot] X on lane X; ground crew advised to set brakes which we did. after towbar and tractor was disconnected; the aircraft started rolling forward with no engines. both left seat and right seat applied pressure on the rudder pedals to try to stop the plane; but no response. i noticed that the brake accumulators were reading zero so i turned on the elec hyd pump and the plane came to a stop on the grass. Person A told me to 'call' so i called on the frequency i was on at the moment; which was ZZZ Ramp; and [requested priority handling]; but no readback. i looked at the ECAM and noticed that the engines started spooling up to idle. Person A started up the engines and he began taxing the plane out of the grass and into the taxiway. i switched frequencies to Ground and they eventually told us to stop and standby. next Ground finally told us to reenter the ramp and asked if we knew where we're going; i said yes; and they told us to switch frequencies and proceed to the hangar. Cause: aircraft was out of service due to hyd issuesSuggestions: tow the aircraft
I performed various inspections on the aircraft; two of which required me to open the right hand hydraulic cowling door. I first performed an AD; followed by a visual of the hydraulic deck area and cleaning of the hydraulic deck area in accordance with the 30day airworthiness inspection. After the inspection and cleaning; the hydraulic cowl was shut and latches secured; I then moved onto the rest of the inspections. Prior to returning the aircraft to service; I had the pilot come out and visually inspect the engine chip plug installations; after that the transmission and engine cowlings were closed and a walk around was performed. The aircraft was then returned to service. After the aircraft had flown 1.6 hours; the Right hand hydraulic cowling came open in flight while the aircraft we on final to its home base; this resulted in the four main rotor blades striking the aft corner of the cowling. Aircraft safely landed and various inspections were performed; a new cowling was installed; blades repaired; and aircraft was returned back to service. During further investigation; it was noted that not all five of the fasteners were secured after maintenance was performed. It was also noted that this was not caught after three different walk arounds of the aircraft.
Report filed to raise awareness that; during history research of this event; noted that multiple 737 MAX-8 with similar noisy/grinding sounds have been written up; some signed off without documenting full investigation of noise or without addressing inspection of stab trim chain.  Aircraft X has been reported correctly; repaired per work order during B check. Others aircraft are in question; in need of revisiting for quality control of sign offs.  Training and bulletin is advised to remind techs of importance of this system.Suggestion: On overnight A checks; assign a visual inspection to look for evidence of dragging; grinding due to loose stab trim chain. This will help prevent cancelled flights by reducing chains which grind in revenue service.
When Aircraft X was at ZZZ; an Aircraft Maintenance Technician found two worn Main Landing Gear Tires (MLG) worn beyond limits; which was MLG Tires #2 and #3. During the MLG tire replacement; the Technician also found two damaged brake assemblies. The #2 MLG Brake had cracks on the brackets and the #3 MLG brake had one each rotor missing.A few years ago; I wrote a report and my Lead wrote a report pertaining to the issues we were finding on the 737 MAX Brake Assemblies. During that time we did a quick research of some of our 737 MAX aircraft and found a history of damaged and/or seized brake assemblies on said aircraft. I don't know what action was taken after my report a few years ago but it seems that the 737 MAX Brake Assembly issue is still ongoing. I truly believe there is a systemic brake assembly issue for our 737 MAX aircraft that needs to be addressed as soon as possible.During my report years ago I requested that someone look into this matter more deeply and to further investigate why our 737 MAX Brake Assemblies were being found seized to the wheel assembly and damaged to the point where the brake assemblies were breaking apart and the debris being found on the ramp. At the time I also suggested that it could either be a bad batch of brakes from the manufacturer; brake failure; or a systemic issue with carbon brakes in general on the 737 MAX aircraft which needed to be addressed and investigated at soon as possible to avoid an accident. I am aware of an EA (Engineering Authorization) in place to check a different make/model Brake Assembly that we may have in stock throughout the system. However; it doesn't address the 737 MAX Brake Assemblies that are still failing or not up to standards. The brake assembly was so badly seized onto the wheel assembly that we could not separate them and therefore had to ship out both the brake assembly and wheel assembly attached together.
On Day 0 around XA:00 I went out to my assigned aircraft to work an MEL for a Captain's PTT (Push-To-Talk) switch being intermittent; I was not able to find the switch in the IPC (Illustrated Parts Catelog); so I discussed it with my crew chief that night that had stepped up to be a crew chief and he agreed with me that it was a control handle replacement. so; I went out and checked my IPC effectivity and then went out to the aircraft and went ahead to remove the Captain's control handle. after I removed it; I called my crew chief and told him i was ready to install the control handle and that I needed QC (Quality Control) out there before i started the installation since it was related to flight controls and the AMM (Aircraft Maintenance Manual) note up top said RII (Required Inspection Item). so he called QC on the radio and a QC inspector came out. I talked to him about what was going on and was ok with everything and I showed him the old control handle and I verified with him that the new control handle was effective per the IPC. i also showed him the AMM to make sure we were on the same page and we were and he was fine with it and I proceeded to installed the new handle he witnessed everything up to the torque and he checked my torque wrench and it was good and he made sure I didn't forget to fold the tabs over the screws heads and as i was installing the boot another QC inspector came up just to assist and he started talking with [the first QC Inspector] and they were discussing if the control handle was RII or not and they both questioned the job if it needed RII or not and they agreed that it wasn't RII but they called a 3rd person over the phone to verify if the control handle was RII or not and he also said no that it wasn't so all 3 persons said no and that's when I said ohhh ok and I trusted them thinking they were correct since 3 QC people said no and then they left since they came to the conclusion that it wasn't RII and I proceeded to finished the install.
I installed leading edge and trailing edge flap lockout-tag out (LOTO) in accordance with the company job card for a task opening the fan cowlings. By the end of the shift I was finishing signing tasks on the work package and the technician I was working with informed me the LOTO task card was complete and could be signed off so I finished the task card on the tracking system. We then got a gate call for gate return of stiff flight controls and we found the FLT controls switch was left in off position; same technician corrected the problem as I entered it electronically on the tracking system and the aircraft departed with no other issues.
On Day 0 I wrote up both NLG tires assembly for being worn. I help with the removal and installation of both tires. On Day 1 it was found that both axle nut retaining bolts where installed backwards. Since we were outside on the ramp at night I must have gotten complacent and not realized they were backwards. I have reviewed both removal and installation manual for proper nose wheel installation. This wont happen again.
My colleague and I installed fuel flow governor on number one engine. on the following day I was told the aircraft had an air return. I was advised by the union to file a report.
I remember oiling both engines on Aircraft X. and I remember securing both oil caps back on the reservoir after servicing. Today I was informed that one of the oils caps was found off with an air return.
Aircraft X was in route from ZZZ1 to ZZZ2 on Day 0. While in flight at 36;000 feet the aircraft experienced a cabin depressurization and performed an immediate descent and landed in ZZZ. The left pack was on MEL and the aircraft was operating on the right pack only. I was one of the 3 technicians dispatched to ZZZ out of ZZZ3 to troubleshoot and repair the aircraft. It was found that a duct on the operating pack had blown off from a bypass valve with enough force to damage the inside of the pack bay body fairing panel.   The design of this duct is such that one V-band clamp at the top is the only thing securing it in place. If that clamp fails; loosens; or wears for any reason; then the duct will simply rotate and come off of the bypass valve.  Reference aircraft IPC XX-XX-XX-XXX. This clamp holding the duct was found loose enough that this is what happened causing the duct to rotate and come off in flight; causing the cabin pressure to drop. I find it hard to believe that this is an approved design on an aircraft. There is nothing to prevent the duct from doing this and is obviously very important to maintaining cabin pressure. I believe that this is a poor design and may happen again.
During inspection I determined the air filter was in good shape and did not replace it. April 2023 aircraft had not been flown much since the annual. April 2024 owner student pilot had to land because of reduced power shortly after takeoff because the filter had deteriorated and partially blocked the intake.No damage to aircraft and no injures to CFI or Student. The filter was two years old and in appeared as new during the inspection.Many of the aircraft I work on are flown very little and I have deferred this type of filter before because the shelf life was 4 years.  I am concerned about the rate of deterioration and the ability of this to block the air intake. I will never defer another one. In the past 4 months I have removed three of these filters that have just crumbled; unknown times on two of them 28 months on the third but aircraft not flown last 6 months.
We; mechanic Person B and I [Person A]; were in the process of locking out the upper; lower; and middle Power Control Unit (PCU); per job card step X.  As I was holding the rudder; right pedal; to the right.  Person B was at the rudder station.  He was able to attach the middle lock on to the middle PCU.  As soon as he attached the lock - the aircraft lost power.  I frantically communicated to Person B that I lost power to the aircraft and to step away from rudder area.  The rudder shot to neutral position.  With the middle lock to PCU attached / secured.  Person B was safe.I went down to the power unit.  Tried to start power to outlet 1.  No help.  The unit showed some error message.  Connected output 2.  Got power.  Restarted process of right rudder lockout.  With hydraulics on.  I pressed right rudder pedal.  Noticed the whole plane shake.  Person B communicated back to me something broke".  Now proceeded to install upper and lower PCU locks for middle PCU change.  Hydraulics to on.  applied right rudder.  I heard a loud bang.  Person B yelled to shut down.  The middle PCU had failed.  Suggestions: Positive ground equipment. Unknown at this moment. Pretty shaken up on the incident."
Aircraft X had a chip event on Day 0 at ZZZ International airport which is about one and half hours away from the ZZZ1 base. The result of the chip and oil analysis was that main gear box needed to replaced. As a result I ordered the main gearbox from Airbus and was told that none were available and the lead time was approximately two weeks. Due to the lead time it was determined that the best course of action was to cannibalize a main gearbox (MGB) from an aircraft at the ZZZ2 maintenance facility.The main gearbox that was sent did not have a hub shaft installed as the hub shaft determined to be damaged beyond limits. As such I removed the hub shaft assembly from the MGB on Aircraft X for use on the cannibalized MGB. the initial conversation about what aircraft MGB would be coming provided that the same part number MGB would be provided. Due to issues unforeseen circumstances this did not happen and the MGB provided was not the same part number. I ordered MGB; the MGB received was [the wrong part number]. As it turns out that MGB is not compatible with the main rotor hub shaft that was removed from the bad MGB and installed on the cannibalized MGB. I was unaware of this issue and did not see this compatibility issue in the Aircraft Maintenance Manual (AMM). Turns out that this compatibility chart is in the Illustrated Parts Catalog (IPC) not the AMM. This was only brought to my attention after I submitted a fresh service ticket to service engineering for the component replacement in the Maintenance Software. Unfortunately the aircraft was test flown; returned to service and approval by acting Maintenance Manager and returned to base flying a total of 1 hour and 32 minutes on the parts that were not compatible. This transpired on Day 16. On Day 17 I received a call from Person A with service engineering who informed me that he could not update the Maintenance Software compatibility due to the fact that the MGB and hub shaft where not compatible in the IPC. I proceeded to call AirBus tech support who opened a TE; also called the area manager; Maintenance Manager and Company to take the aircraft out of service awaiting the outcome of the TE. I understand that it was my responsibility to ensure the parts where compatible and I missed this. I also believe that I should not have been the single point of failure in this endeavor. If we are going to cannibalize parts especially major components with multiple variations there should be at least a second set of eyes to ensure compatibility; software update; etc. To leave all of that to the mechanics on the ground working long hours off site with spotty Wi-Fi coverage for access to manuals is a recipe for disaster.
On Day 0; I was working dayshift PW4000 subassembly with a trainee. The workscope for Engine S/N XXXXXX; stated the Low Pressure Turbine (LPT) module; (module 1; S/N XXXXXY) was to be disassembled to access a low cycles remaining 3rd stage airseal. After removing the disk/airseal assy.; we discovered the serial number on the airseal did not match maintenance software system records. Maintenance software system record shows Part X was onlogged to this module several years ago on Day 0; however the S/N of the installed airseal is Part Y; and maintenance software system records shows that airseal installed on PW4000 engine S/N XXXXXZ. Fortunately; engine XXXXXZ was recently removed from service and is currently waiting induction to the ZZZ1 engine shop. Although we won't know for sure until we can verify the S/N; it is highly likely that S/N XXXX airseal will be found installed on this engine.Further investigation showed that two LPT modules with successive numbers (module 2 and module 3); were being built at almost the same time. Module 3 had it's airseal installed on Day 2 whereas module 2 had it's airseal installed on Day 16. Standard procedure is to build up and balance the disk assemblies in order (3rd-4th-5th-6th) and then place them on a pie cart where they are later used in module build-up. During this timeframe; we were having problems with fitment of 3rd stage disk/airseal assemblies during module build. The tie rod bolts would not fit through all the holes; and it was common to reject the disk during module build and return it to the disk build-up and balance area. However; after a check of job cards for both engines; I could find no record that any swapping of parts occurred. There is no non-routine; nor is there any 2nd build paperwork indicating the airseal was replaced at a later date. Any later swapping of airseals would require that the disk assembly be returned to the disk build-up and balance area to be rebalanced. This leads one to believe that the Technician balancing the disk/blade assembly accidentally installed the wrong airseal; but signed off the correct paperwork. However that conclusion would be wrong.We know that the balance Technician could not have installed the wrong airseal at disk build-up and balance as both airseals were not uninstalled and present at the same time. Onlogging of engine parts occurs in a separate building; and when all or most parts are present; the module is moved to 4000 subassembly for disk build-up and balance. Airseal XXXX was onlogged Day 0; then moved to subassembly and was installed Day 2 per Inspect and Repair (I&R) Tag; completing that disk assembly. This assembly was then moved to the module build-up area. Airseal XXXY was in a separate building when it was onlogged on Day 13; then later moved to 4000 subassembly for disk build-up and balance. Airseal XXXY was installed on Day 21 per I&R Tag; completing that disk assembly. Both airseals were onlogged and installed by four different people. It is highly unlikely that two different onlog Inspectors and two different Technicians failed to verify the serial number on a onlogged life limited part (LLP) part. So; the only logical conclusion is that both Onlog Inspectors onlogged the correct S/N airseal; Technicians installed the correct S/N airseal on each disk assembly and later during the module build-up process a bolt alignment problem occurred. At someone's suggestion; airseals were swapped to see if that solved the bolt alignment problem; which it did. Then both disk assemblies were rebalanced and returned to their respective modules for assembly. For reasons unknown; no paperwork was generated to justify this work; nor was Inspection notified so the maintenance software system records could be corrected. As outrageous as this appears; it is the only scenario that makes sense.Suggestions: Since both parts have the same part number; and the part number was valid for this configuration; then an incorrect part number was not installed; however an incorrect Serial Number was installed. The 3rd stage airseal is a Life Limited Part (LLP); and maintenance records needs to verify that we did not exceed hours/cycles for this engine (S/N XXXXXX). When the other airseal is located; then maintenance records must also verify hours/cycles were not exceeded for that engine. When possible; it would be helpful not to use sequential numbers for builds...module 2 should not be built at the same time as module 3 is being built.
In ZZZ I was told that the aircraft Boeing 767-300 was going to the Hangar it was out of service for sparks in the overhead flight deck. I was directed to complete the overweight landing check I completed the overweight landing check; but during the overweight check I found evidence of a bird strike contacted my lead and contacted ZZZ line maintenance control to send out authorities to collect evidence of a bird strike; once complied with; then I accomplished the bird strike inspection and cleaned the area. I was also told to Take a quick look at the overhead it's an avionics aircraft they are going to do wiring checks because of the nature of the incident. I also checked all aircraft circuit breakers to see if any were tripped none found tripped .I turn all the power off on the aircraft and dropped down the overhead panel to the overhead door entry because that's what the pilot stated in the write up where the sparks were coming from; I didn't see any damage to the panel. I dropped the panel next to it ; it's the landing light anti-collision light ASSY then I proceeded  to look at the wires to the anti-collision ;landing light ASSY looking for bare wires or anything welded together no defects found on wires ; with the panels down I powered the aircraft and performed visual of door entry overhead panel no defects found ;then performed visual of overhead anticollision and landing assy found a black mark on panel at about the 12oclock position then I grabbed the assy to take a closer look at the  panel ;then  sparks started coming from  back of assy I immediately killed power to aircraft then pulled associated  circuit breakers. I disconnected cannon plugs and looked at back of assy found jam nut to nose gear light switch completely backed out and you can flex the switch left to right to make contact with metal post on ASSY causing sparking situation. I Looked up replacement parts via IPC  removed and replaced part notified supervisor and lead of findings. Performed  ops check of anticollision; landing light ASSY and associated switches   performed door entry overhead ops check and window heat ops checks per the A.M.M. all checks  where good  .I updated log page with work complied with. The shift manager told me to sign off the write up . I felt threaten ; pressured to sign off the aircraft I feel like I'm working in  a hostile work environment and this goes against our values I thought my Identification cards where going to get pulled and I was going to be fired because I requested avionics support to sign off the write up.  I explained to the shift manager that avionics needs to do a complete wiring check of the overhead panel and associated wiring explained to the shift manager that the aircraft should be out of service and going to the hangar to complete these tasks . He told me several more times to just sign it off; Because the part that I replaced was the smoking gun" I continue to ask the shift manager to send over the avionics crew to go to the next phase of these tasks. After several hours of going back and forth with the shift manger The avionics supervisor showed up with an attitude speaking in a loud voice asking for me when he entered the shop; then proceeded to argue with me and was condescending and disrespectful he told me he was not going to sign off the aircraft and was reluctant in doing the wiring checks. It was the end of my shift; so I started cleaning up and updated my log page with my findings."
During tow operations; I had noticed a noise coming from the left main landing gear. The wheel cover was removed and the axle nut was found rolling loose inside of the cover without a safety device. I removed the wheel assembly and inspected for damage. Upon inspection I found that both wheel bearings were damaged. I cleaned and inspected the rest of the wheel assembly for any other damage but; no other damage was found. The wheel assembly was then reassembled with new bearings with appropriate grease; and a new tire tube. The wheel assembly was then reinstalled on the aircraft and I ensured this time that the axle nut was tightened properly and a correct safety device was installed.
Cockpit door was closed and forward lavatory door was opened and the handle was held down until it went under the cockpit door and locked the handles together. Captain was unable to open cockpit door and lavatory door was stuck and unable to release them. I had to coordinate with Captain to have him slowly open cockpit door while I unjammed the lavatory door. This is the second time this has happened at ZZZ. If this happens in flight there will probably not be a way to get the doors apart. If the lavatory door handle is not held down until the doors lock together this cannot happen. The flight deck door has a rubber bumper that the lav handle; if it's held down; will lock together. This a serious issue that needs to be addressed. Change lavatory door handle design or put a stop so they can't overlap the handles and lock together.
Installed seatback and hydro-lock per the CMM (Component Maintenance Manual) 25-62-82 for log-page XXXXXXX and XXXXXXY. Upon installation forgot to install the seatbelt shackle attachment fitting (P/N 1022492-125) causing seat to not have attachment points for seatbelt. During initial inspection of the seat; discovered various missing hardware and attachments which required researching and ordering parts. The seat had been worked on prior to arriving at ZZZ. Many parts were missing and not delivered on time during shift change. Time constraint was a factor as well due to scheduling for international flights. Towards the end of shift there was no manpower relief by oncoming shift; the resulting decision was to work overtime reluctantly to finish the completion of seat. Fatigue became onset during overtime hours and the cleaning crew were working within proximity of the work area that could have distracted line of thoughts. The seat was reassembled to the best of ability and appeared to be complete. Unfortunately; the shackle was not installed after reassembly because there were no spare parts remaining thinking the seat was complete.Suggested Resolution: Have hardware not misplaced and attached with seat or parts list of missing hardware damaged parts.
This is a placeholder to solicit reports from ZZZ1 techs. Aircraft X [requested priority handling] into ZZZ due to hydraulic system A low pressure indication. This is a repeat issue last occurring on Day 0 in ZZZ1 where the Eng 1 Engine Driven Pump (EDP) was replaced. Upon inspection in ZZZ found case drain supply line loose and supply line and union below torque and hydraulic coking in supply line and on pump impeller. Company hydraulic supply line; flushed system.
I came into second shift and dayshift had removed the #1 EDP (Engine Driven Pump). I was told the diversion was caused by a failed EDP seal. We were waiting on parts and tooling for most of second shift. Dayshift gave a verbal turnover and I understood at what point the replacement of the EDP was at. After receiving parts and tooling the SEALOL seal was replaced; and the pump installation started per AMM (Aircraft Maintenance Manual)_29-XX-XX. I continued the install and torqued all lines per AMM ref. After the engine runs were complete there were no leaks noted on the EDP at any time. I was advised there was an issue with the EDP installation on the next flight. Per log page; they found a line not properly torqued. As far as I'm concerned I torqued everything per AMM instructions.
Air Cycle Machine     During disassembly of P/N XXXXXXX-X found parts missing in assembly.Bearing washer and Bearing retainer were not installed in the unit. Other repair shop didn't install these parts. Also some normal washers not installed.
Received bulk cargo door Mel from line maintenance that had been started by there department previous night; received spring tube in an unsafe condition; rig pin incorrectly installed & end cap hardware removed. Could have resulted in serious injury or death persons or equipment; as spring and cable swaaged fitting would have been a long pointed projectile. As spring could have violently exited the tube. One screw partially installed was only item holding spring compressed inside tube. Also no recorded of action taken on logpage; handover not adequately described action takenSuggestion: Referring to Aircraft Maintenance Manual before starting job and waiting on tooling to arrive. Documenting action taken and advising of an unsafe condition.
I worked on assigned Aircraft X to troubleshoot Backup Generator Blocked message. After extensive troubleshooting involving opening TR's (Thrust Reverser) and top pylon panel; we found broken wire that required harness change. We expected; it will be a turnover but 30min prior ending my shift I was asked to reconnect cannon plugs and coordinate with mechanics to put the aircraft back in service. I was done helping out my 2 other coworkers to finish up a non-routine form and then we agreed to stay to at least go back on top of the engine and reconnect cannon plugs and reassembly the panel. From here only closing of TR's [panel] was left to do. Person A asked me if everything is ready to go and I said yes. Apparently; there were 2 C/B's (Circuit Breakers) left in bay locking the TR's [panel] that Person B left pulled. I haven't seen the C/B tags with non-routine and Person C already left to work 2nd shift at the terminal. I assumed everything was ready to go as it was on my end. Cause: Miscommunication and rush to put the AC back to service. Many people involved across two shifts and improper turn over.Solution: Slow down and communicate with my avionics counterparts and not assume.
Aircraft landed in ZZZ. The Right Main Landing Gear had damage at its mounting location which came apart. The aircraft was parked at the end of the runway and pax were removed. The aircraft recovery team was contacted and moved the aircraft approx 4 miles from the runway to the hangar. The aircraft is currently in ZZZ1 and damage was noted. There was write ups for the Aircraft to perform after the recovery but a more detailed inspection was not performed. Currently we are working with the manufacturer on lessons learned. More details to come on the post mitigations.
During the discussion for an ok to install a right aileron control tab the question about its weight was brought up if it was sold to inspection.  I looked up the different non routine that repainted the tab and a weight was made but was not bought off as Required Inspection Item (RII). I stated this on the non-routine and then the inspector rejected the same non routine. Then management and quality control supervisor said the re weight of the part is not RII. The quality control supervisor was Person A and the supervisor was Person B. I disagree with this according to how I read the General Maintenance Manual XX-XX-XX. I believe the weight change or verification of a flight control or tab is adjustment and rig of flight control per ATA XX . The same airplane had two elevator tabs being weight and balance with inspection task. So; this confuses me why the difference. I was asked that someone else get the ok to install in which they did. I then was ordered to install the tab which I did. I continued with the procedure using the weight that was on non-routine number XXXXXXXXX. The non-routine I was working to install it is XXXXXXXX. The number of added weights to the aileron depends on this weight. Ref aircraft maintenance manual XX-XX-XX-XXX-XXX for install and Structural Repair Manual XX-XX-XX for weight needed.I am looking for more clarification. I hopefully am wrong but if the weight depends on changing the aileron counterbalance I feel this number should be verified.
On Day 0; I was performing a 1 service on the aircraft. I serviced the engine oils per Aircraft Maintenance Manual (AMM); starting with engine number one I added four quarts of oil to fill the tank to 100% secured the oil cap then moved onto engine number two which also took four quarts of oil to fill to 100%. I was notified some days later that during a check on Day 1; the performing technician found the number one engine oil cap in the open position and noted that the oil capacity was 100%. I with 100% confidence can say that I secured the cap. The plane flew three legs prior to the discovery of the open cap.Suggestion: I suggest continuing to be vigilant as I have been in ensuring that all tasks are done in their entirety and done to the standards of the published reference material. I would also suggest that training be conducted covering the importance of recording all work performed on an aircraft in the logbook of that aircraft.
Aircraft X was a gate return before take off. ref Logbook Deferral Sheet# XXXXXXX the pilot set the parking brake and noticed the plane's brake pressure indicated that the pressure went to 0 briefly and came back. During that event (which was not in the write up) the planed moved with the brake set. Normal braking was fine. Aircraft has history on this.Cause: The mechanics and avionics were troubleshooting the problem using the Trouble Shooting Manual (TSM) and wiring diagram. The troubleshooting started at the end of day shift. Afternoon shift supervisor Person A was on shift for afternoon. Person A kept stressing that the job wasn't moving fast enough. He wanted to know what was taking so long and said 9 times out of 10 changing parts fixes the problem. I let him know the job takes as long as it takes and we were working on it. I had conferred with Maintenance Control and had a verbal agreement on the path to take to resolve the problem. When Person A would not stop about the job I asked him are you directing me to have the mechanics change a valve and switch without completing the TSM? Avionics had cannon plugs off at the time and were doing wiring checks. He said yes. I repeated myself. Are you directing me to tell the mechanics to change the parts even though we have not finished troubleshooting and I think that this is a bad idea at this point. He again said yes and walked out to go to his meeting. This is common from Person A and others on afternoon/overnight shift to pressure mechanics. Person A specifically said he is tired of getting yelled at during the evening meetings. I offered to go with him and he said no. Person A says he gets yelled at a lot.Suggestions: I believe this is dangerous behavior from management. We have many times in the past asked them not to pressure. Person B has covered this with upper ZZZ management before. As far as this afternoon shift goes; nothing has changed. Day shift is starkly different than afternoon and midnight shifts. To direct mechanics to start changing parts while another work group is working the same system is irresponsible and dangerous and could get someone hurt. This has got to stop. We are here to troubleshoot and find the problem.
Aircraft was operating a flight from ZZZ [airport] to ZZZ1 [airport] and diverted to ZZZ2 [airport] due to weather. In ZZZ2; the crew notified Maintenance Control that the CA seat unlocked and moved during a go-around windshear maneuver. The CA seat might have also unlocked previously but unable to recall. The controller had the CA sit in the seat; move the seat rail locking control; move the seat to each positioning hole and make sure seat locked in place. Additionally; the controller also had the CA violently move the seat around to try and have seat unlock from the locked position at each positioning hole. The seat did not unlock from the locked position. The controller explained that ZZZ2 maintenance could come out and perform the same task. Further discussion with the CA determined that would be unnecessary since it would be the same results. The CA and controller mutually agreed to continue to ZZZ1 and have ZZZ1 maintenance investigate further. A discrepancy was made when the A/C arrived in ZZZ1. Maintenance disassembled the locking pins on each side of the seat and found a broken spring for one of the two locking pins. The spring was replaced and there have been no further similar discrepancies. In hindsight; the controller should have made an irregularity report in Maintenance Tracking Computer System for the CA seat moving in ZZZ2 and a follow-up for the seat to be inspected further at next line station for better documentation.Root cause narrative: Failure of the crew and controller to understand the significance of a pilot seat unlocking in flight.Suggestion: Discrepancy should have been made for the CA seat unlocking in flight so contract maintenance could inspect and sign-off in ZZZ2. Follow-up made for further troubleshooting for seat unlocking at next line station or RON (Routine Overnight) maintenance base.
While doing a walkaround; I noticed that the #3 MLG tire inner tread was separating. During the removal of the tire; we noticed that the brake had severe and extensive damage. One of the brake rotors was completely disintegrated. A piece of the metal clip was all that remained. I am sure this is not the first brake found in this condition; or worse. The situation to resolve the brake clips cracking is beyond comprehension and is critical to ensure safety of flight. A fix needs to be implemented on the brake clips ASAP before an accident occurs.Suggestion: Modification of the Brake Clips need to be accomplished ASAP. Trying to save money by using the 737NG brakes on a 737MAX IS A MISTAKE.
Gate call to Aircraft X armed intermittent indication; while debriefing Flight Attendant outside the aircraft; Person A closed and open the door; several times; the slide gird bar was attached to the one of the sides and not the other side/ the slide fell off partially off the door; I never heard the door assist go off. I checked the door assist bottle and it read 500 psi; I believed the bottle was not services. After removing the slide cover; we found out the upper forward hat bushing was not installed; the bolt was installed; if the hat bushing is not installed; the slide will not be properly secure to the door; and it can slide off on that side Cause: possible installation error.  Suggestions: proper installation of the slide with all the correct hardware. I guess physically look at the grid bar to make sure is not partially attach each time before opening the door.
Called out on Day 0 for a hyd leak in the nose wheel well of an A220. Arrived to find hyd fluid had wet the inside of the nose wheel well. After pinning nose gear and opening FWD gear doors I found the b nut on the hyd line attached to the nose gear uplock actuator had turned to the left breaking the torque seal stripe. I placed a wrench on the fitting and tightened/torqued it per the manual reference I had been sent by Maintenance Control. While on the phone with Maintenance Control the controller said something to the effect of; oh it must have backed off again; There was no accommodation on the b nut to safety wire it in position and it seems that since this may have happened before this might be something to address with A220 operators.
Mechanic with approximately one year was working the terminal and had an extra plane dropped in around XA:15. There were not enough people here to work in pairs. There was a hydraulic leak coming from the RH wing outboard and middle canoes. Mechanic was put on the plane to find the cause of the leak. To find the leak they needed to run hydraulics and lower slats and flaps. They were alone 90% of the task and were told to find the cause of the leak before the plane could be sent to the hangar. They spoke to the leads and were told that they could not send the plane there without finding the leak; The mechanic ended up having to stick their head in the lowered slats with hydraulics running and no second person watching the control in the flight deck. At one point Mechanic had a box guy out there to run spoilers so we could check for active leaks there. He was only able to stay for about 20 minutes.After feeling very uneasy and unsafe Mechanic decided it was best for them to make an educated guess about where the leak was coming from; so they did not have to put their head in flight controls with hydraulics running. The supervisor then asked them to go back out there and get better pictures of the leaking component and make sure everything would be clean for the hangar. Mechanic told him I was not going to put my head back up there and that he needs to send the plane down to the hangar.Mechanic wrote the item up as an educated guess because they did not feel safe working alone and putting their self in a dangerous situation.Mechanics are often pressured to do things at the gates; which can result in injury.  Leads lets the supervisors dictate maintenance and will not stand up for us or our safety.Supervisors need to use proper channels of communication. If there are not enough people to work a job for safety reasons. The job can wait. AND never should any Mechanic be sticking any body parts in flight controls with hydraulics running. LOCK OUT TAG OUT!
Aircraft X landed in ZZZ from ZZZ1. The ramp and flight crew failed to notice a failed wheel bearing condition at the gate. Since local policy prohibits maintenance personnel from performing routine maintenance walk around inspections on turns; there was no maintenance trained eyes on the aircraft. The aircraft was fueled; and passengers were boarded as normal. As the aircraft was being pushed back on to its next flight; a ramp employee noticed a what looked like smoke coming from the left main landing gear. The aircraft came back to the gate and maintenance was called to investigate. The maintenance crew determined severe bearing failure conditions and took the aircraft out of service. The aircraft was towed to my hangar on 3 MLG tires only. The gate maintenance crew was directed to remove the number 4 MLG tire for the ramp to move the plane.Remove the policy that restricts our maintenance professionals from performing walk around inspections at the gates on live flights. Wheel / tire / landing gear failures are becoming a common occurrence. This aircraft was very close to departing again with a severely damaged MLG. The next landing could have been catastrophic.
Day 0 aircraft scheduled for trip Etops to ZZZZ; myself and two other AMTs were assigned to accomplish the PDC. Prior to going out to the aircraft as I always do I review the documents to make a mental note of what is already being tracked. When approaching aircraft I we discovered multiple areas of speed tape on the lower fuselage right side from the NLG to the leading edge (LE) of the wing. Once we verified again there was NO tracking documentation for the presence of the speed tape we started are evaluation to find out why it was present. Peeling back the speed tape we discovered extensive lightning strike damage to the fuselage skin and the heads of hi-loc fasteners. Most of the skin damage were dime to nickel in size burn marks with fiber ply damage. The damage to the fastener heads were large spots of melted material. After researching history the most current documented lightning strike event was 4 months ago at ZZZ1. The lightning strike inspection card in Company database reflected no damage found. It has become all to common to discover speed tape applied to areas on the aircraft with no tracking information; but to find something of this serious in nature is very disturbing. If an individual is capable of covering up something of this nature; what else are they willing to do; they DO NOT belong working in this industry!
Aircraft X; Pilot reported T2 sensor inop; went to aircraft with two other techs 1 and 2. Deferred the sensor; tech 1 started paperwork for the discrepancy. After that pilot told us minor bird strike; and pilot also stressed about leaving ZZZ. PILOT pressured tech 1 into return to service (RTS) BEFORE airport operations arrived. Tech 1 called Maintenance Control and had RTS; while me and tech 2 inspected the LH WING. After airport operations took sample; me and tech 2 and airport operations visually inspected the engine and noticed the damaged fan blade. And verbally confirmed this plane cannot go into service; at this time jet bridge was pulled and aircraft doors were closed. Tech 1 don't wait for us and then had out of service (OTS) the aircraft.Suggestions: Comply with airport operations and communicate with team members before RTS the aircraft.
On Day 0 at around XA00 myself and another mechanic were taxiing an aircraft. I was right seat running radios and my left seater was a high time mechanic that was highly experienced run/taxi. While taxiing the aircraft to the gate we were taxiing on taxiway 1 crossing XXL and we lost nose wheel steering while on the active runway. My left seater identified that we lost Nosewheel Steering (NWS) and immediately stopped the aircraft then communicated the issue with me. ATC also identified an issue and offered assistance; which I declined but communicated the issues we were having. Concurrent with me talking to ATC NWS steering returned and we were able to vacate the active runway. We made the determination that the aircraft was not safe to fly and we would have to return to the hangar. I told ATC this and they were able to route us back to the hangar. We momentarily lost NWS one more time on the way back to the hangar but other then that we had no other issues.
Day 0; I was approached by my base manager about a maintenance discrepancy I was involved in two years prior. I was the Required Inspection Item (RII) inspector for an upper Rudder Power Control Unit (PCU) change that was written up for failing the Actuator Integrity Test during a check. Recently A/C experienced Rudder Trim issues that was later discovered to be caused by an upper Rudder PCU attach Fitting fracture. When the PCU Toggle Bolt was removed from the upper Rudder Fitting; it was noted that a Bushing was missing from the attaching hardware. After reviewing the maintenance history of the Rudder; the last time there was documented evidence that the PCU was worked on was the upper Rudder PCU change two years prior. I remember being involved in the replacement of the upper Rudder PCU as the RII inspector and following strict guidelines while performing my RII duties. The mechanic replacing the PCU and I followed the exact Aircraft Maintenance Manual (AMM) instructions and also had a copy of the Aircraft Illustrated Parts Catalogue (AIPC) of the PCU and its attaching hardware present as a reference to assist us in completing the task accordingly. To the best of my recollection from the time of the PCU replacement and now; I believe all installation procedures were followed along with all the necessary effective hardware. Unfortunately due to the time that has passed from the time of the replacement; it's not clear weather or not myself and the mechanic involved were the last ones to work on the PCU.Suggestions:I remember having to change the number and size of the Washers for the Castellated Nut to torque and align property with the Bolt hole. There was repeated actions of removing and installing the Nut and Washers. At the time; I was new in my role as a qualified RII. Since then; I've had time to learn and grow to be more proficient in my role. To take my time and inspect carefully the work being performed.
During fan blade retaining pin torque check (follow-on to Fan Blade Pin Restoration); heard the sound of a loose bumper inside the fan hub. Found blade #16 to be missing it's bumper. (Blade was exceptionally loose compared to others). Three other blades had to be removed to locate the missing bumper; since it was jammed between a blade and the hub. Thorough visual inspection of hub; blades; pins and bumpers was performed; with no defects noted to any component. Missing bumper was retrieved; but was heavily damaged from tumbling around inside the hub. New #2 bumper was installed per GE Maintenance Manual. All fan blades; bumpers; and pins were reinstalled; along with the aft and forward fan spinners. Engine operational check performed. No defects noted. Fan blade #16 bumper was apparently never installed correctly. Suggestions:Reiterate the importance of an inspector being present during any and all engine fan maintenance; and assure that they are actively involved; and not just standing around. The bumper that was incorrectly installed should have been caught by either the mechanic performing the work; or the inspector monitoring the maintenance activity.
I was told to take Aircraft X to the terminal by my supervisor around XA30 am; which was located on the ramp at the far side of the contract repair station. Following my Run/Taxi checklist I started doing my inspection and I noticed two gear pins were installed in the aircraft: NLG and LH MLG. Person A then proceeded to remove the NLG as I removed the LH MLG pin. As I continued with my inspection i did not see a third pin on the RH MLG due to the lack of the red lanyard that is supposed to be attached to the pin. Person A also did not see the pin. I continued to follow my  Maintenance run/taxi checklist and I was done with my inspection outside so I proceeded to go inside the aircraft. Aircraft was taxi to the gate and it was left in a conditions as per Maintenance Run/Taxi checklist. After take off; the RH MLG would not retract so the pilot had to RTF (Return to Field) and later was noticed upon inspection that a gear pin was still in the RH MLG without the remove before flight red Lanyard.Suggestion: To add install/remove gear pins from aircraft in the Maintenance Run/Taxi checklist just like the Pilot's preflight checklist
While maintenance was bringing Aircraft X down from storage with the large tug. We had our hangar tug ready to be hooked up to Aircraft X in the hangar for pull in. When Aircraft X was pulled in across the tracks a call was sent for brakes to be set. Brake set was announced from captain seat. I then disconnected tow bar as the hangar tug was pulling up to be connected. Within a matter of seconds I noticed that Aircraft X had rolled across 4 hangar door tracks. I grabbed a set of chalks from tug and proceeded to put them under nose tire. After 3 attempts of Aircraft X jumping the chalks I went to the main tires. Aircraft X main tire continued to jump chalks another 4 times. At this time Aircraft X struck Aircraft Y and came to a stop. We did not know a brake line was missing when setting parking brake. There was no tag out for brake rider to know that parking brakes were inop. When he stated brakes set.
Aircraft X on Day 1 was requested by planning to have Deferred Maintenance Instruction (DMI) XXX/1 (LH wheel well frame XX METAL crack issued on Day 0) extended as it was low on time and is an extensive repair. The pictures planning provided were for the composite webbing on FRAME XX (which was also on DMI YYY/1 separately). I applied to Return to Service (RTS) for an extension of the COMPOSITE WEBBING ON FRAME XX that was on DMI YYY/1 (DMI issued Day 1) based on the pictures; not the METAL FRAME XX CRACK that was what they wanted extended; and got the relief back. The METAL FRAME XX CRACK DMI XXX/1 was extended on accident in the Maintenance Software (unsure of who actually extended it in the maintenance software) and the correct follow up DMI ZZZ/1 for composite webbing crack was issued in ZZZ1 on Day 1. This was brought to my attention on Day 2 and after some investigation I realized I applied for the wrong damage to be extended per planning's request. The DMI that ended up getting extended was for the METAL FRAME XX CRACK and resulted in overflying it.Suggestions: I should have looked closely at the DMI number as well as the provided pictures and caught the discrepancy between the 2.
It was around XA:50 and since I had finished with my workload for the night; I decided to help do the comp wash on the LH engine on Aircraft X; since there wasn't anyone around at the time that felt comfortable running the wash cart. I thought myself familiar enough with the process to get the job done; except I had never set the wash cart up completely by myself before. On other occasions I had turned the water supply on and off using the lever on the tank; but I did not have experience setting up the nitrogen pressure for the tank. I had thought that since the gauge was at roughly 15psi and I was told before that 15-20 psi was the optimal range; that I was good and only needed to turn the water supply on and off from there.So; once the mechanic in the cockpit gave me the all clear to start running the cart; I did so; flipping the water supply on. A few seconds pass by and still the engine rpm doesn't change nor do I see water coming out of the engine. It was at this point that I look around; making sure I wasn't missing anything. My nitrogen gauge still read at roughly 15 psi and my water supply for the right tank was set to 'ON'; so I looked around a bit more and the only thing I could think of was the nitrogen supply bottle might be closed. As soon as I opened the nitrogen supply bottle; I noticed the psi had shot up from around 15 to 80 instantly. I could've been faster on the regulator; but I don't think that would've changed much since about a second after; I heard a loud grinding noise over the engine dry motoring. I smelled something burning; and saw white sparks shoot from the tail end of the engine as water finally came out. Someone else got the mechanic in the cockpit to shut the engine down while I shut the cart off.After all was said and done; the Air Turbine Starter (ATS) was in need of replacement; since there were many chunks of metal attached to the chip detector. Other mechanics came over to replace the ATS and I came to write this report while the information was still fresh in my mind.Suggestions: Ask for training on using GSE (Ground Support Equipment) if you are unsure; don't assume you got it; unless you want to blow up an Air Turbine Starter with an engine wash cart.
Maintenance Control called stating MFD (Multi-function Flight Display) hydraulic page shows engine EDP (Engine Driven Pump) pressure while engine is off. Maintenance Control requested we perform power reset. Power reset did not fix the fault. Mx (Maintenance) deferred system 1 hyrdaulic pressure indiction on MFD. lo pressure" caution message was not displayed on the EICAS. Passengers were already boarding when mx was walking off."
Myself and one other mechanic went out to Aircraft X after it returned to gate due to E1 no start. I was the more experienced mechanic but neither of us had performed a deferral of an engine starter control valve or a manual engine start. When we arrived at the aircraft we checked for faults on the CMC (Central Maintenance Computer) and found none. After speaking with the captain we opened the engine cowls to check the starter for damage. I have changed a broken starter before and this one had no signs of damage or failure so we thought to attempt a manual start after we closed the cowls. At this point I was reading the MEL 80-XX-XX-X and I did not understand that a full engine start was required to apply this MEL; With APU bleed on I manually actuated the starter control valve; I felt it turn and heard the rush of air; I could see that N1 began rotating so I assumed that the engine would start when the full manual start procedure was performed. I wrote up the deferral paperwork for the E1 starter control valve and signed it off then called it in to Maintenance Control to put the aircraft back in service. I coordinated with the captain and ground to perform the manual start and E1 still would not start after 2 attempts. I called Maintenance Control to take the aircraft back out of service and the aircraft was de-boarded. Later troubleshooting determined that the engine gear box was seized.
During inspection of flap rods for the inbound for A/C rolls right sharply when Autopilot (AP) disconnected on approach found the RH wing #2 flap track upper flap rod disconnected from the rod end that connects to the outboard side of  the inboard AFT flap panel. This allowed that flap panel to move around 2-3 inches with flaps fully extended. GVI (General Visual Inspection) of area no other damage noted. Once the rod was removed noticed the threads on the rod itself were damaged from where the rod end pulled out of that end. That end of the rod is also LH threads and was safety wired backwards; the other end of the rod the rod end itself was bent and no threads were showing in the witness hole of the rod indicating flap rod was not rigged properly.
At around XA00 on Day 0; I and my colleague boarded aircraft X in the ZZZ maintenance hangar in order to take the plane to the sound wall for engine runs following maintenance. Upon starting the RH engine; a loud bang was heard and the aircraft shuddered.  We stopped the engine and talked to the lead techs who had heard the sound and immediately come over to investigate. Upon looking into the inlet; they found the remains of my coworker's hammer that had been left there; which severely damaged all the fan blades; the fan case and inlet. We shut the APU down and tugged the plane back into the hangar to assess the damage while several other mechanics were asked to walk the ramp to collect any additional FOD created by the incident.The core failure that led to the incident was lack of a proper walkaround before taking the plane outside to run. The plane had been in the hangar all night and we had been all over it inside and outside for a bi-weekly inspection; so I got complacent in assuming we knew everything we needed to know about the plane and I should focus on known sources of aircraft damage such as ground equipment and ladders; unsecured doors; safety harness ropes getting caught in the flight controls; etc... But there is no 'hangar version' of the run-taxi walkaround.  Our training tells us how and why the walkaround inspection is supposed to be done.  If I'd done the proper procedure all of those things would have been caught anyway; and the hammer would certainly have been found before any damage occurred.
While trouble shooting L1 arm/disarm indication MEL. Found that the mechanism for arming the door to be restricted. The arming indication would not fully display. When bringing the arming lever back to the disarm position it stuck and then released. When opening the door the slide fell out slowly. It was found that the diaphragm to door had been leaking and dropped to zero as well. The slide was found to be partially blown and partially attached. The slide was then removed from aircraft for further trouble shooting conducted. Suggestions:The mechanism for the arm/disarm could have been installed improperly or the slide was improperly attached. The doors diaphragm was found to be leaking and dropped to zero. Much could be prevented by proper installation and preventative maintenance
I was involved in an incident on Aircraft X that caused damage to the airplane; due to a mistake I made during the rigging procedure of a spoiler power control unit. Myself and another Company technician were tasked with finishing the installation of the #1 spoiler power control unit for Aircraft X; a Company airlines B787. We picked up the remaining workload from the midnight shift which included doing leak checks on both engines so both engine fan cowls and thrust reverser doors were opened. During the rigging procedure for the power control unit; I was in the flight deck operating the display while my coworker was completing the steps required out at the spoiler. We were in communication with each other and we were completing the procedure which involved placing a rigging block in position between the flap and the spoiler and then removing it while stepping through the different pages that appeared on the display. The damage occurred when I pushed 'CONTINUE' on a page that directed me to ensure the thrust reverser doors were closed before proceeding. I pushed 'CONTINUE' because I thought the slats system was deactivated along with the thrust reversers. The next screen said to pressurize hydraulics and move the flap handle to position 30; at which point the leading edge slats deployed and impacted both engines inboard thrust reverser doors. I mistakenly believed that both thrust reversers and the leading edge slats were deactivated and that only the flaps would move when I pushed 'CONTINUE'. I was notified what had happened and I turned off the hydraulics and exited the test screens on the display; next meeting up with my coworkers and my Lead Mechanic to determine together how we should proceed from that point. The reason I thought only the flaps could move was I saw from the logbook entries that the thrust reversers were deactivated for the check; which I expected as the engines were opened. I knew that deactivating the slats system was part of that same procedure so I assumed that this system was also deactivated. I also saw that a considerable number of virtual circuit breakers were in the opened state. I'm not sure but I believe more than ten were opened total; but I did not verify one by one which breaker deactivated which system. I have not deactivated the thrust reversers or the slats on the B787 personally; so I was not familiar with the procedure or what individual steps were taken during the procedure. To add further context; I have worked for Company for almost 8 years; and over 7 years of that time I was in a work area where I mostly worked with other aircraft. I occasionally worked on various wide body aircraft; but this work was normally routine jobs such as service checks and navigational database updates; or similar work. On the B737; deactivating the slats system is part of the procedure for deactivating the thrust reversers; and this was why I expected both systems to be disabled and unable to move with hydraulic power. I am not experienced with replacing flight control components or doing jobs that require opening the fan cowls and thrust reverser doors on the B787; so I was not familiar with these procedures. I'm confident I would not have made this error if I was doing this job on a familiar aircraft; as I would have clearly seen the systems were not deactivated. I am new to the hangar work area and picking up aircraft that have been turned over from midnights; which at times includes finishing checks and correcting or completing work such as Aircraft Health Management or procedures. On this particular morning I was aware that most of Aircraft X's work was already completed; and that it had a flight scheduled for early afternoon; approximately XX or XX:30pm was what I understood at the time. Therefore my mindset was geared towards finishing the remaining work as efficiently and timely as possible; leading me to determine with the proper systems deactivated we could move the flaps and complete the spoiler power control unit rigging procedure. This was clearly not the case; so I believe that lack of knowledge and experience on the B787; combined with an attempt to complete too many job procedures simultaneously; led me to make an error during the spoiler power control unit rigging procedure that resulted in the damage sustained by Aircraft X.
During inspection a crack was found and missing material observed; resulting in scrapping of the LLP (life limited part) before its full life cycle.  Text from internal occurrence: During Part inspection of the 1st Stg Disk PN 7006770 found Seal Arm fractured before Life limited Part reached. Observed DOD on multiple parts.
SAAB released a bulletin to do a hole check on the 787 cargo door hinge brackets.  An outside vendor has been doing the inspections. Twice I've found that the vendor's employees have been pencil whipping the hole inspections in order to not have to complete rework and slow down the delivery schedule. I noted the work order with a description of my inspection rejection. It illustrates that only 1 of the required 5 fasteners have been removed.  The one replaced fastener was installed without required sealant. The 1 fastener also has FOD under the head and protruding out. It also illustrates  there are different size heads of the 5 fasteners that are supposed to be the same part number. It also shows that there are different size washers installed that are supposed to be the same part number.  Since my rejection; the rejection was ignored and signed off by another inspector. Completely signed off and forgotten about.  The unsafe condition still exist. I've made inspection management aware. It's being ignored. I've made several reports. Every time; issues get swept under the rug.
CFI was instructing a student doing slow flight when the engine started to run rough.CFI requested priority landing and the aircraft land without incident and was taxied to the maintenance hangar. On inspecting the engine; it was discovered that there was a crack in the #4 cylinder. I assisted in replacing the cylinder with what I assumed was an overhauled unit.Engine was ran up with no problems. After I left for the day; the A&P who was doing the sign off asked a private pilot to do a return to service test flight the following morning which was done with no incident. While the flight was being conducted 2 inspectors from the FSDO came by and asked to see the cracked cylinder and the paper work on the replacement cylinder. I then discovered the it was a used cylinder with no paper work.The aircraft later that day had the cylinder in question removed and replaced with a factory new cylinder with proper paper work (8130-3).Although I was only assisting with the repair; I should have checked for proper paper work be any installing the cylinder; something I will be sure to do in the future.
After takeoff; the pilot experienced failure of the altimeter and the airspeed indicator on the pilot's side. The pilot had to use the co-pilots secondary airspeed/altimeter to return for landing. This was caused by a static line that came loose during replacement of the cabin differential pressure indicator. This happened due to failure to follow the maintenance procedure and leak test the static system.Suggestions: Adherence to policy; maintenance procedure; and identifying; labeling; and remedying hazardous attitudes such as complacency.
